
A previously healthy 28-year-old woman scheduled for laparoscopic tubal ligation becomes, agitated and refuses to undergo the procedure after being brought to the operating room. This behavior most likely resulted from preoperative administration of
(A) droperidol
(B) cimetidine
(C) atropine
(D) meperidine
(E) midazolam

Following a right lower lobectomy, a patient develops a bronchopleural fistula and becomes hypoxic. He is orally intubated and mechanically ventilated with pure oxygen. PaO, is 65 rnmHg, PaC02 is 70 mmHg, and pH is 7.25. Which of the following will produce the most favorable change in the blood gases?
(A) Increasing ventilatory frequency
(B) Increasing suction on the chest tube
(C) Applying 10 cmH,0 positive end-expiratory pressure
(D) Using a double-lumen tube for differential ventilation
(E) Starting negative-pressure ventilation

A 70-year-old man with stable angina is scheduled for cataract removal with a retrobulbar block. After injection of 5 ml of 0.75% bupivacaine, heart rate decreases from 90 to 55 bpm, and frequent premature ventricular contractions are noted on the EKG. These changes are most likely caused by
(A) intravascular injection of bupivacaine
(B) subarachnoid injection of bupivacaine
(C) myocardial ischemia
(D) oculocardiac reflex
(E) retrobulbar hemorrhage

A 35-year-old woman who takes a diuretic daily for chronic hypertension has a serum potassium concentration of 3.1 mEq/L on the morning of an elective hysterectomy. An EKG shows left ventricular hypertrophy. The most appropriate management is to
(A) consult with a cardiologist before proceeding
(B) initiate oral potassium replacement and proceed with the operation when potassium concentration is normal
(C) initiate intravenous potassium replacement and proceed with the operation
(D) initiate intravenous potassium replacement and proceed with the operation when potassium concentration is 4 mEq/L
(E) proceed with the operation without intervention

During therapy for eclampsia, toxic blood levels of magnesium sulfate can be distinguished from therapeutic levels by the presence of
(A) diminished knee jerk reflex
(B) a widened QRS complex on EKG
(C) fetal tachycardia
(D) maternal drowsiness
(E) uterine rigidity

Following the administration of 4 MAC hours of enflurane, peak serum concentrations of inorganic fluoride are highest in patients who
(A) are physically dependent on barbiturates
(B) are taking isoniazid chronically to suppress tuberculosis
(C) are epileptics taking phenytoin chronically
(D) are obese
(E) consume alcohol regularly

Which of the following is the most likely finding in the affected extremity during the acute stage of reflex sympathetic dystrophy?
(A) Dermatomal distribution of pain
(B) Hypesthesia
(C) Increased growth of hair and nails
(D) Localized edema
(E) Radiographic evidence of osteoporosis

DC shocks of 200 joules applied directly to the heart are likely to
(A) worsen coronary perfusion
(B) prevent postshock arrhythmias
(C) produce myocardial contractile abnormalities
(D) increase myocardial impedance
(E) decrease myocardial temperature

Compared with a semiclosed circle system, a closed system
(A) decreases the risk for anesthetic overdose
(B) decreases the risk for rebreathing carbon dioxide
(C) has lower resistance to gas flow
(D) permits calculation of oxygen consumption
(E) permits more rapid changes in anesthetic depth

A conscious patient has an acute subdural hematoma that will require surgical evacuation. Which of the following interventions to be carried out in the emergency department is most likely to decrease intracranial pressure?
(A) Having the patient hyperventilate
(B) Intravenous administration of an opioid
(C) Intravenous administration of a corticosteroid
(D) Intravenous administration of nitroprusside
(E) Intravenous administration of furosemide

When PaO2 is increased to 300 mmHg in a healthy parturient at term, the umbilical vein PCs will
(A) not change
(B) increase slightly
(C) decrease slightly
(D) nearly triple
(E) approach maternal PaO,

Which of the following statements concerning diazepam is true?
(A) Absorption is more predictable after intramuscular administration than after oral administration
(B) It produces a shift to the left of the carbon dioxide ventilatory response curve
(C) Rebound drowsiness is caused by a metabolite
(D) The degree of CNS depression is independent of serum albumin concentration
(E) The extent of amnesia is proportional to the degree of sedation

Nonsteroidal analgesics such as aspirin decrease pain by
(A) decreasing axonal transmission of pain stimuli through a local anesthetic mechanism
(B) directly competing with substance P for receptor occupancy
(C) inhibiting enzymatic breakdown of met-enkephalin
(D) inhibiting production of prostaglandin E2
(E) potentiating the action of endorphin in the substantia gelantinosa of the spinal cord

The pin index system
(A) is not used in central pipeline connections
(B) requires aligning four pins with four holes
(C) is used on all sizes of medical gas cylinders
(D) has been replaced by color coding of gas cylinders
(E) prevents overfilling of gas cylinders

What is the expected mixed venous oxygen tension, in mmHg, in a normal adult after breathing pure oxygen for 10 minutes?
(A) 573
(B) 563
(C) 150
(D) 95
(E) 45

A parturient received 1000 ml of dextrose 5% in lactated Ringer's solution 20 minutes prior to delivery. Ten minutes later her blood glucose concentration is 580 mg/dl. In this situation
(A) the risk for fetal intraventricular hemorrhage is increased
(B) the risk for neonatal hypoglycemia is increased
(C) placental glucose transport is insulin dependent
(D) the neonate should be given dextrose 50% in water if depressed at delivery
(E) the mother should be given insulin prior to delivery

The fail-safe mechanism on an anesthesia machine is activated by
(A) a wall-oxygen pressure of less than 25 psi
(B) a disconnection between the endotracheal tube and the machine
(C) a nitrous oxide concentration in excess of 85%
(D) an incompetent expiratory valve
(E) no oxygen flow

Which of the following is characteristic of the pharmacokinetics of alfentanil?
(A) Clearance is greater than that of fentanyl
(B) Elimination half-life is normal in patients with hepatic insufficiency
(C) Protein binding is minimal
(D) The majority of alfentanil in plasma is ionized
(E) Volume of distribution is smaller than that of fentanyl

Leakage current and microshock hazards are eliminated by
(A) an isolation transformer
(B) conductive flooring
(C) a three-wire grounding system
(D) a line-isolation monitor
(E) none of the above

A 70-kg, 20-year-old athlete receives nitrous oxide and oxygen, thiopental, and fentanyl 1.25 mg (25 ml) during a knee reconstruction procedure lasting three hours. Postoperatively, he does not awaken or resume spontaneous breathing for three hours. The most likely explanation for the prolonged effect of fentanyl is
(A) dose-dependent elimination half-life
(B) genetically slow biotransformation
(C) large volume of distribution
(D) presence of an active metabolite in high concentration
(E) time required for hepatic elimination

Which of the following is most likely to occur during deliberate hypotension with trimethaphan?
(A) Bronchoconstriction
(B) Cerebral vasodilation
(C) Increased heart rate
(D) Potentiation of pancuronium
(E) Pupillary constriction

A 60-year-old man undergoes transurethral resection of a bladder tumor in the lithotomy position with spinal anesthesia. During the procedure the surgeon reports that the patient's right leg is "jumping." This movement is most likely caused by stimulation of which of the following nerves?
(A) Femoral
(B) Lateral femoral cutaneous
(C) Obturator
(D) Pudendal
(E) Sciatic

A 45-year-old woman undergoes aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis. Two minutes after removal of the venous cannulae, air is noted in the arterial inflow cannula. Heart rate is 80 bpm, blood pressure is 95/60 mmHg, and cardiac index is 1.5 L/min/m2. ST-segment elevation is noted in EKG leads II, III, and aVF. The most appropriate next step is to
(A) administer thiopental
(B) decrease left ventricular afterload
(C) increase arterial blood pressure
(D) replace the left ventricular vent
(E) resume cardiopulmonary bypass

A patient with end-stage renal disease has prolonged ventilatory depression after administration of morphine. The most likely cause is increased
(A) serum concentration of morphine-6-glucuronide
(B) elimination half-life of morphine
(C) opioid receptors
(D) receptor affinity
(E) volume of distribution

In a patient with adult respiratory distress syndrome who is being mechanically ventilated, which of the following findings indicates the most severe disease?
(A) Decreased functional residual capacity
(B) Decreased lung compliance
(C) Hypercarbia
(D) Hypoxemia
(E) Increased dead space

Which of the following additives accelerates the onset of lidocaine axillary block without shortening duration?
(A) Carbon dioxide
(B) Dextran
(C) Dextrose
(D) Epinephrine
(E) Hyaluronidase

The primary determinant of the duration of an intravenous regional block sufficient to provide surgical anesthesia of an upper extremity is
(A) duration of tourniquet inflation
(B) capacitance of the venous system of the extremity
(C) local anesthetic agent injected
(D) volume of anesthetic solution injected
(E) method of exsanguinating the arm

The decrease in hematocrit that accompanies acute major blood loss results from
(A) decreased capillary hydrostatic pressure
(B) increased capillary oncotic pressure
(C) decreased interstitial fluid oncotic pressure
(D) increased interstitial fluid hydrostatic pressure
(E) decreased viscosity of the flowing blood

Thirty-six hours after transection of the spinal cord at C6, a patient is given thiopental, succinylcholine, nitrous oxide, and halothane anesthesia for an emergency procedure. You should anticipate the development of
(A) muscle spasms
(B) autonomic hyperreflexia
(C) gastrointestinal bleeding
(D) hyperkalemia
(E) hypotension

A 70-kg, 77-year-old man Is undergoing left nephrectomy with nitrous oxide, oxygen, fentanyl, and midazolam anesthesia. He has a 90 pack-year history of cigarette smoking and has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. One hour after incision, expiratory wheezing occurs and peak Inspiratory pressure increases from 35 to 65 cmH20; end-tidal PC02 is unchanged, but SpO, decreases from 97% to 88%. The most likely cause is
(A) endobronchial intubation
(B) overinflation of the endotracheal tube cuff
(C) pneumothorax
(D) pulmonary edema
(E) pulmonary embolism

The anesthetic concentration necessary to suppress responses to intubation without muscle relaxation is
(A) Increased in pregnancy
(B) increased by premedication with scopolamine
(C) higher than the concentration required for skin incision
(D) lower at high altitudes than at low altitudes
(E) the same as that required for electrocautery of gut

Recommendations for maximal allowable trace anesthesia gases are based on
(A) achievable levels with modern scavenging systems
(B) data from animal studies
(C) data on methionine synthetase levels in anesthesiologists
(D) evidence for an association with malignancy in anesthesiologists
(E) evidence for an association with spontaneous abortion In operating room personnel

The physiologic function most likely to be spared when a local anesthetic differential nerve block is administered is
(A) sweating
(B) temperature sensation
(C) proprioception
(D) touch sensation
(E) pain sensation

In pregnant patients, which of the following is an effect of the long-term use of cocaine?
(A) Decreased uterine tone
(B) Decreased thiopental requirement
(C) Increased isoflurane MAC
(D) Increased sensitivity to ephedrine
(E) Lower than expected level of block with tetracaine spinal analgesia

A 50-year-old patient undergoes subtotal thyroidectomy for Graves' disease. In the Immediate postoperative period, he has marked hoarseness but no stridor. The most likely cause of the hoarseness is trauma to the
(A) external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve
(B) internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve
(C) recurrent laryngeal nerve
(D) glossopharyngeal nerve
(E) vocal cords

A patient has palpitations, flushing, and light-headedness after gingival injection of a local anesthetic. This reaction is most likely caused by
(A) epinephrine in the local anesthetic
(B) local anesthetic allergy
(C) para-aminobenzoic acid allergy
(D) methylparaben reaction
(E) vasovagal reaction

A 28-year-old woman receives a lumbar epidural anesthetic for uncomplicated labor and delivery. During removal of the catheter, 1 cm breaks off and remains in her back. After informing the patient, the most appropriate management is
(A) no intervention unless symptoms occur
(B) prophylactic antibiotics
(C) epidural corticosteroids
(D) dye contrast study of the epidural space
(E) neurosurgical exploration

Which of the following statements concerning opioid dependence in anesthesiologists is true?
(A) Mortality rate is high
(B) Deterioration of professional performance is an early sign
(C) Nalbuphine suppresses signs of withdrawal
(D) Naltrexone prevents relapse
(E) Sufentanil is detected by urine screening

Which of the following statements concerning use of amitriptyline to treat chronic pain is true?
(A) It acts primarily via opioid receptors
(B) It increases serotonin levels in the brain
(C) It is rarely effective for postherpetic neuralgia
(D) Onset of action occurs after four to six weeks of treatment
(E) Response depends on reversal of depression

Compared with adults, neonatal respiratory function is characterized by
(A) a lower ratio of dead space to tidal volume
(B) a more compliant chest wall
(C) a more positive intrapleural pressure at end-expiration
(D) less susceptibility to atelectasis
(E) the same oxygen requirement per kilogram of body weight

A child has tachypnea immediately after reintubation for intractable laryngospasm. Oxygen saturation is 78% at an Fl02 of 1.0. A radiograph of the chest taken 15 minutes later is most likely to show
(A) bilateral pleural effusions
(B) diffuse homogenous pulmonary infiltrates
(C) patchy central infiltrates of the right upper lobe
(D) pneumothorax
(E) segmental atelectasis at both lung bases

A 55-year-old patient with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (IHSS) is undergoing bladder suspension with enflurane 1%, nitrous oxide 50%, and oxygen 50%. Junctional tachycardia and hypotension develop suddenly immediately after skin incision. The most appropriate management is to
(A) decrease enflurane concentration
(B) administer an intravenous fluid bolus
(C) administer intravenous esmolol
(D) administer intravenous phenylephrine
(E) begin nitroglycerin infusion

Following a thyroidectomy, a patient develops severe dyspnea, inspiratory stridor, and cyanosis in the recovery room. On physical examination, the neck appears full. Attempts at bag-mask ventilation are unsuccessful. Immediate therapy is to
(A) administer calcium chloride
(B) perform an emergency tracheostomy
(C) open the wound and institute bag-mask ventilation
(D) return the patient to the operating room
(E) perform endotracheal intubation

Early deceleration of fetal heart rate
(A) correlates with high concentrations of local anesthetic in maternal blood
(B) frequently occurs with fetal scalp pH greater than 7.25
(C) indicates need for immediate cesarean delivery
(D) indicates subclinical uteroplacental insufficiency
(E) predicts low Apgar scores at delivery

Which of the following statements concerning neuroleptic malignant syndrome is true?
(A) It does not respond to dantrolene therapy
(B) It is inherited as an autosomal trait
(C) It is not triggered by succinylcholine
(D) It occurs after long-term use of L-dopa
(E) The halothane-caffeine contracture test is negative in susceptible patients

To eliminate all pain during the second stage of labor, a lumbar epidural block must extend from
(A) T6 to LI
(B) T10 to LI
(C) T10 to SI
(D) T10 to S4
(E) LI to S5

The correlation between anesthetic potency and lipid solubility
(A) suggests that the number of molecules dissolved at the site of action causes anesthesia
(B) applies to anesthetic agents dissolved in olive oil
(C) suggests that the type of molecule causes anesthesia
(D) is consistent with the synergistic effect of anesthetics
(E) is not consistent with a unitary molecular site of action of anesthetics

In a patient with aortic stenosis, myocardial ischemia following endotracheal intubation is most likely to result if there is an Increase in
(A) heart rate
(B) left ventricular end-diastolic pressure
(C) myocardial contractility
(D) pulmonary vascular resistance
(E) systemic vascular resistance

Following extubation after nasotracheal intubation for seven days, a 35-year-old man has fever, facial pain, nasal stuffiness, and purulent nasal secretions. The most likely cause is
(A) eustachian tube obstruction
(B) frontal sinusitis
(C) maxillary sinusitis
(D) parotiditis
(E) retropharyngeal abscess

Which of the following statements concerning monitoring of neuromuscular function during general anesthesia is true?
(A) Facial nerve electrodes underestimate recovery from block, compared with ulnar nerve electrodes
(B) More current is required to depolarize a nerve beneath the negative electrode than beneath the positive electrode
(C) Needle electrodes should be electrically grounded
(D) Supramaximal voltage is 10% higher than the voltage required to elicit pain in the awake patient
(E) The amount of neuromuscular block is underestimated if electrodes are placed on a paretic limb

Meperidine has a more rapid onset of action than morphine following intravenous injection because of its
(A) lesser ionization
(B) greater lipid solubility
(C) lesser protein binding
(D) smaller volume of distribution
(E) slower rate of hepatic clearance

One day after a vaginal hysterectomy under epidural anesthesia, a patient has numbness and inability to dorsiflex the right foot. Her legs were placed in leg holders during the operation. The most likely cause is
(A) epidural hematoma
(B) common peroneal nerve injury
(C) sacral nerve root injury
(D) sacral plexus injury
(E) sciatic nerve injury

Blind nasotracheal intubation is contraindicated in the presence of
(A) a basilar skull fracture
(B) a comminuted mandibular fracture
(C) an orbital blow-out fracture
(D) an unstable cervical spine fracture
(E) a zygomatic arch fracture

Compared with morphine 5 mg administered epidurally at T12, morphine 5 mg administered intravenously is associated with
(A) greater incidence of urinary retention
(B) less intense analgesia
(C) less nausea and vomiting
(D) longer duration of analgesia
(E) longer time to maximum analgesia

Which of the following is the most frequent cause of hemorrhagic diathesis after administration of 20 units of CPD-stored blood over six hours?
(A) Disseminated intravascular coagulation
(B) Hypofibrinogenemia
(C) Low plasma concentrations of factors V and VIII
(D) Primary fibrinolysis
(E) Thrombocytopenia

Which of the following is most effective for maintaining core body temperature in an adult during general anesthesia for foot surgery?
(A) Heating inspired gas to 28°C
(B) Warming intravenous fluids to 30°C
(C) Increasing ambient temperature to 28°C
(D) Placing a warming blanket beneath the patient
(E) Placing four 200-watt warming bulbs within 76 cm of the wound

In patients with renal failure, which of the following muscle relaxants has the most prolonged elimination half-life?
(A) Atracurium
(B) Pancuronium
(C) Succinylcholine
(D) d-Tubocurarine
(E) Vecuronium

Percutanous cordotomy is being considered for a patient with severe pain that has persisted for three months after amputation of the arm for osteogenic sarcoma. Which of the following statements is true?
(A) An effective cordotomy will produce motor block
(B) A series of stellate ganglion blocks will provide permanent relief
(C) Cordotomy must be performed with the patient awake
(D) Cordotomy will effectively relieve phantom limb pain
(E) Spinal opioids are an alternative treatment of this pain

Which of the following is the most likely cause of rapid oxygen desaturation during laryngoscopy In a pregnant woman?
(A) Airway edema
(B) Anemia
(C) Decreased functional residual capacity
(D) Fetal oxygen consumption
(E) Increased cardiac output

An advantage of CPDA-1 over CPD for storage of packed red blood cells is
(A) greater enhancement of red cell survival
(B) lesser increase in plasma hemoglobin concentration
(C) lesser increase in PC02 of stored blood
(D) better maintenance of blood pH
(E) better maintenance of 2,3-diphosphoglycerate concentration

Which of the effects of epidural morphine is most resistant to intravenous naloxone?
(A) Analgesia
(B) Nausea
(C) Pruritus
(D) Respiratory depression
(E) Urinary retention

A healthy, 60-kg, 52-year-old woman undergoing reduction mammaplasty is anesthetized with isoflurane and oxygen, and deliberate hypotension to 80/40 mmHg is induced with nitroprusside. Urine output through an indwelling urethral catheter has been 10 ml during the past hour. You should now
(A) administer furosemide 40 mg intravenously
(B) infuse normal saline solution until urine output reaches 35 ml/hr
(C) administer dopamine at 3 jug/kg/min
(D) expect normal urine flow with restoration of normal blood pressure
(E) discontinue nitroprusside administration

The following hemodynamic values are obtained two hours after coronary artery bypass surgery: Cardiac index 1.7 L/min/m2; Pulm Art. Occ. Pressure 22 mmHg; MAP 60 mmHg; Urine volume 0.2 ml/kg/hr. The most appropriate management is
(A) dopamine infusion
(B) nitroprusside infusion
(C) norepinephrine infusion
(D) volume expansion
(E) observation without intervention

A patient becomes flushed, dyspneic, and hypotensive during transfusion of 1 unit of packed red blood cells in the PACU. After discontinuing the transfusion, the most appropriate next step is administration of
(A) aminophylline
(B) cimetidine
(C) diphenhydramine
(D) epinephrine
(E) hydrocortisone

Compared with the adult airway, the airway of an infant is characterized by
(A) greater narrowing at the cricoid ring
(B) a less rigid epiglottis
(C) a more caudad laryngeal opening
(D) a relatively smaller tongue
(E) relatively larger tonsils

Halothane anesthesia is usually associated with an increase in
(A) cardiac contractility
(B) venous capacitance
(C) arterial pressure
(D) venous return
(E) heart rate

A 76-year-old man has a leaking abdominal aortic aneurysm. His blood pressure and pulse have remained stable for 15 minutes at 90/60 mmHg and 130 bpm, respectively. His hemoglobin concentration is 11 g/dl, and the EKG shows a left bundle branch block. Induction of anesthesia should proceed
(A) after a pulmonary artery catheter has been inserted and the pulmonary artery occlusion pressure is greater than 7 mmHg
(B) when the pulse has decreased below 130 bpm from the rapid transfusion of blood
(C) when systolic blood pressure has increased to more than 120 mmHg from the rapid infusion of lactated Ringer's solution
(D) immediately on arrival in the operating room
(E) when circulatory signs deteriorate or cease to improve with rapid volume expansion

In an Infant, spinal anesthesia to a sensory level of T8 is achieved with tetracaine administered at the L2-3 interspace. Compared with spinal anesthesia to the same sensory level in an adult, this anesthetic is associated with a
(A) higher risk for neurotoxicity
(B) higher risk for systemic toxicity
(C) lower risk for spinal cord injury
(D) more significant decrease in blood pressure
(E) shorter duration of action

Volume-cycled flow generators are preferred over pressure-cycled ventilators in critical care units because they
(A) have a lower compression volume
(B) limit peak airway pressure
(C) maintain constant ventilatory volume with changes in lung compliance
(D) more readily compensate for gas leaks
(E) permit more accurate measurement of the patient's minute volume

A 65-kg, 57-year-old man has an initial activated clotting time (ACT) of 122 seconds prior to elective cardiopulmonary bypass. Five minutes after administration of heparin 200 mg, ACT increases to 154 seconds. After two additional doses of 200 mg each from different lots, ACT increases to 240 seconds. The most appropriate next step is to
(A) administer additional heparin 400 mg
(B) administer fresh frozen plasma 2 units
(C) initiate cardiopulmonary bypass
(D) measure the plasma heparin concentration
(E) start an infusion of desmopressin

An 18-year-old patient with hemophilia A is scheduled for inguinal hernia repair. Preoperatively, factor VIII concentration is 60% of normal. The most appropriate management is administration of
(A) fresh frozen plasma
(B) cryoprecipitate
(C) factor VIII concentrate
(D) vitamin K
(E) none of the above

The following changes occur during posterior cervical fusion in the prone position under halothane and nitrous oxide anesthesia with mechanical ventilation: HR 78 --> 84 with frequent PVCs; BP 110/70 --> 90/50; EtCO2 4.5% --> 2.0%; EtN2 0.12% --> 4% The most appropriate next step is to
(A) administer lidocaine intravenously
(B) decrease ventilatory rate
(C) discontinue halothane
(D) lower the patient's head
(E) inspect the ventilator bellows

Syringe A contains 100 ml of normal blood with a P02 of 2 mmHg, and syringe B contains 100 ml of normal blood with a P02 of 98 mmHg. The contents of the two syringes are mixed anaerobicaily to equilibrium. The P02 of the resultant mixture Is
(A) 27 mmHg
(B) 50 mmHg
(C) 63 mmHg
(D) 96 mmHg
(E) 100 mmHg

A 40-year-old man is scheduled for emergency laparotomy for bowel obstruction. He is nauseated but has not vomited. Which of the following drugs administered intravenously preoperatively will decrease the risk for pulmonary aspiration?
(A) Atropine
(B) Droperidol
(C) Metoclopramide
(D) Ranitidine
(E) None of the above

Which of the following perioperative interventions decreases the risk for renal insufficiency in patients undergoing aortic aneurysm repair?
(A) Administration of furosemide
(B) Administration of mannitol
(C) Administration of renal-dose dopamine
(D) Epidural anesthesia
(E) Preoperative volume expansion

A 20-kg, 5-year-old boy under treatment for five days for a cerebral contusion not requiring an operation is still unconscious. After three days of mechanical ventilation, humidified oxygen 40% via T-tube is started. Arterial blood gas analysis shows PaO, 120 mmHg, PaCO, 44 mmHg, pH 7.48, and base excess +6. A nasogastric tube is in place and draining to gravity. Daily fluid therapy has been 5% dextrose in 0.5 normal saline solution 500 ml and 5% dextrose in lactated Ringer's solution 500 ml. Serum electrolyte concentrations are sodium 140, potassium 3.2, and chloride 91 mEq/L. Serum osmolality is 300 mOsm/L. Urine output averages 15 ml/hour. Dexamethasone 8 mg/day has been the only drug therapy. This patient most likely requires
(A) additional intravenous fluids
(B) furosemide diuresis
(C) administration of ammonium chloride
(D) reinstitution of mechanical ventilation
(E) administration of potassium chloride

Following paravertebral blocks of the second through fifth intercostal nerves, numbness is noted on the medial aspect of the ipsilateral arm. The most likely cause is
(A) anesthesia of the intercostobrachial nerve
(B) anxiety-induced hyperventilation
(C) injection into a dural cuff
(D) intravascular injection of local anesthetic
(E) partial block of the brachial plexus

During total cardiopulmonary bypass, metabolic acidosis and decreasing mixed venous oxygen saturation are noted. The most likely cause is
(A) hypothermia
(B) hypoperfusion
(C) hypocarbia
(D) rewarming
(E) light anesthesia

Which of the following is most reliable for treatment of cerebral artery vasospasm associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage?
(A) Antifibrinolytic therapy
(B) Hyperventilation
(C) Mannitol infusion
(D) Nitroprusside infusion
(E) Volume expansion

Which of the following will most closely mimic the effects of stellate ganglion block?
(A) Axillary perivascular block with 25 ml of 1.5% lidocaine
(B) Cervical nerve block at C2-C5 with 2 ml of 1.5% lidocaine
(C) Supraclavicular block at the level of the first rib with 25 ml of 1.5%) lidocaine
(D) Block of the median, radial, ulnar, musculocutaneous, and intercostobrachial nerves
(E) Excision of thoracic sympathetic ganglia T1-T4

Which of the following decreases dead space in an anesthetic circle system?
(A) Larger surface area of the expiratory unidirectional valve
(B) Placing a septum in the Y-piece
(C) Shorter expiratory limb tubing
(D) Smaller carbon dioxide absorber
(E) Smaller reservoir bag

During an otherwise uneventful nitrous oxide-enflurane anesthetic in a spontaneously breathing patient, 85% nitrous oxide is accidently administered, resulting in a P02 of 48 mmHg. Which of the following would be expected?
(A) Tachycardia
(B) Sweating
(C) Tachypnea
(D) Hyperactive EEG
(E) None of the above

An 18-month-old child with tetralogy of Fallot is anesthetized with halothane and nitrous oxide. Following intubation, oxygen saturation decreases abruptly from 85% to 45%. The most effective treatment is
(A) discontinuation of halothane
(B) hyperventilation
(C) intravenous epinephrine
(D) intravenous phenylephrine
(E) positive end-expiratory pressure

A 70-kg, 46-year-old man is undergoing clipping of a cerebral aneurysm with nitrous oxide, opioid, relaxant anesthesia. He is otherwise healthy. As the surgeons are about to enter the dura, the brain is noted to be tense and bulging. Heart rate is 100 bpm and mean arterial pressure is 90 mmHg. PaOz is 120 mmHg, PaC02 is 23 mmHg, and pH is 7.50. Which of the following should be done immediately?
(A) Hyperventilation to a PaC02 of 15 to 20 mmHg
(B) Administration of furosemide 20 mg intravenously
(C) Administration of mannitol 0.5 g/kg
(D) Administration of thiopental 250 mg in increments
(E) Addition of halothane 1% to deepen anesthesia

An 8-kg, 5-month-old infant undergoes craniotomy for an arteriovenous malformation. During the procedure, severe hemorrhaging occurs and packed red blood cells 3 units are transfused rapidly. During infusion of the third unit, hypotension, nodal bigeminy, and prolongation of the QT interval are noted. The most appropriate management includes administration of
(A) bicarbonate
(B) calcium
(C) ephedrine
(D) lidocaine
(E) potassium

An endobronchial Robertshaw tube is inserted for resection of a midesophageal tumor under isoflurane, oxygen, pancuronium anesthesia. Forty minutes into a planned two-hour resection, arterial blood gas values are reported as P02 45 mmHg, PC02 45 mmHg, and pH 7.33. Ten minutes earlier, the values were P02 210 mmHg, PCO, 41 mmHg, and pH 7.39. The first action should be to
(A) reposition the Robertshaw tube
(B) apply positive end-expiratory pressure to the ventilated lung
(C) reinflate and ventilate the .non ventilated lung
(D) increase minute ventilation
(E) repeat the arterial blood gas analysis

Which of the following statements concerning autonomic hyperreflexia after spinal cord transection is true?
(A) It occurs within 24 hours after the injury
(B) It occurs with lesions below T10
(C) It is caused by a reflex increase in parasympathetic outflow
(D) It is characterized by paroxysmal hypotension and tachycardia
(E) It is prevented by blocking afferent visceral pathways

A 45-year-old man is scheduled for exploratory laparotomy. Six months ago, he received doxorubicin (Adriamycin) therapy for testicular cancer. This patient is at increased risk for
(A) abnormal liver function
(B) bone marrow depression
(C) heart failure
(D) chronic renal failure
(E) pulmonary fibrosis

An asymptomatic 38-year-old woman is scheduled for elective cesarean delivery. The preoperative EKG shows left axis deviation that was not present one year ago. The most appropriate next step is to
(A) postpone the procedure and consult a cardiologist
(B) postpone the procedure and obtain an echocardiogram
(C) proceed with the procedure after administration of digitalis
(D) proceed with the procedure but avoid inhalational agents
(E) proceed without intervention since this is a normal finding

A 157 cm (5 ft 2 in), 180-kg, 40-year-old woman has a PaO, of 65 mmHg, a PaCO, of 38 mmHg, and a pH of 7.43 while breathing room air preoperatively. The most likely cause of these values is
(A) decreased hypoxic ventilatory drive
(B) higher than normal oxygen extraction from blood
(C) lower than normal cardiac output
(D) lower than normal functional residual capacity
(E) polycythemia

The concentration effect is greater with nitrous oxide than with the volatile anesthetics because nitrous oxide
(A) has a lower blood-gas partition coefficient
(B) has less effect on cardiac output (0 has lower lipid solubility
(D) is affected less by ventilation-perfusion mismatch
(E) is used in much higher concentrations

Ten minutes after induction of anesthesia with thiopental and isoflurane but before incision, a patient's nasopharyngeal temperature has decreased to 35.4°C. Which of the following contributed most to this decrease in temperature?
(A) Anesthesia-induced block of nonshivering thermogenesis
(B) Failure to use a warming blanket
(C) Infusion of room-temperature crystalloid
(D) Inhalation of room-temperature gases
(E) Mixing of peripheral and central blood

After removing the electrocautery pad from the thigh, a burn is noted at that site. Which of the following most likely contributed to this injury?
(A) A line-isolation monitor fault
(B) Current leak from the EKG module
(C) Defective grounding of the electrocautery unit
(D) Dried gel on the electrocautery pad
(E) Excessive current setting for cutting mode

A blood sample is taken from a patient whose body temperature is 30°C. In which direction will the pH, PCCX, and P02 change when measured in the blood gas machine at 37°C? (pH, PCO2, PO2)
(A) Increase	Decrease 	Decrease
(B) Decrease 	Increase 	Increase
(C) Decrease 	Increase 	No change
(D) No change 	Increase 	Increase
(E) No change 	No change 	Increase

A 31-year-old man underwent uneventful epidural anesthesia for arthroscopy of the knee and meniscectomy. Twenty-four hours later, he still has flaccid paralysis in both legs and pain in the lower back. The most likely cause is
(A) adhesive arachnoiditis
(B) anterior spinal artery thrombosis
(C) epidural abscess
(D) epidural hematoma
(E) transverse myelitis

A Fluotec vaporizer is set to administer halothane 4% using a fresh gas flow of 4 L/min. If the diluent gas flow is increased to 8 L/min, and at the same time the room temperature increases from 20 to 25°C, the approximate concentration of halothane delivered to the patient would be
(A) 2%
(B) 2.5%
(C) 3%
(D) 4%
(E) 5%

Four and one-half hours after initiation of general anesthesia for a radical hysterectomy, a 65-kg patient has a heart rate of 90 bpm, blood pressure of 100/70 mmHg, pulmonary artery occlusion pressure of 9 mmHg, and cardiac output of 2.8 L/min. Urine output has been 20 ml over the last two hours. The most appropriate next step is
(A) administration of furosemide
(B) administration of indigo carmine
(C) administration of mannitol
(D) bolus infusion of normal saline solution
(E) infusion of dopamine in renal dose

Which surface area of the upper extremity is most likely to be unanesthetized by an interscalene brachial plexus block?
(A) Hypothenar eminence
(B) Thenar eminence
(C) Dorsolateral surface of the hand
(D) Lateral aspect of the forearm
(E) Lateral surface of the upper arm

You see a flash of fire from the endotracheal tube of a patient undergoing carbon dioxide laser excision of laryngeal polyps. The immediate response should be to
(A) discontinue the fresh gas flow
(B) increase the nitrous oxide concentration
(C) spray water down the endoscope
(D) insert wet pads into the pharynx
(E) remove the endotracheal tube

Which of the following would be most likely to increase the duration of seizures during electroconvulsive therapy using a barbiturate and succinyleholine for general anesthesia?
(A) Administration of atropine prior to therapy
(B) Changing to a benzodiazepine for induction
(C) Changing to etomidate for induction
(D) Adding phenytoin to preoperative medications
(E) Decreasing the dose of barbiturate used for induction

An obese, 75-year-old woman is scheduled for open reduction of a left forearm fracture. Thirty minutes after successful interscalene block using 20 ml of 2% lidocaine, she becomes dyspneic. The dyspnea is most likely related to
(A) cervical epidural block
(B) cervical sympathetic block with bronchospasm
(C) chylothorax
(D) elevation of the left hemidiaphragm
(E) recurrent laryngeal nerve block

During prolonged labor, a fetal scalp blood sample shows a P02 of 21 mmHg, a PCO, of 46 mmHg, and a pH of 7.35. These findings suggest
(A) fetal hypoxemia
(B) maternal hypoventilation
(C) sampling of venous blood
(D) miscalibration of the oxygen electrode
(E) no abnormality

Phase II neuromuscular block is characterized by
(A) depressed twitch height, sustained tetanus, post-tetanic potentiation
(B) depressed twitch height, tetanic fade, post-tetanic potentiation
(C) depressed twitch height, tetanic fade, no post-tetanic potentiation
(D) normal twitch height, tetanic fade, post-tetanic potentiation
(E) normal twitch height, tetanic fade, no post-tetanic potentiation

Preoperative evaluation of a patient who has marked malnutrition will demonstrate each of the following EXCEPT
(A) decreased respiratory muscle function
(B) decreased serum albumin concentration
(C) decreased metabolic rate
(D) suppressed immune function
(E) decreased extracellular fluid volume

Each of the following decreases hepatic blood flow EXCEPT
(A) isoflurane anesthesia
(B) spinal anesthesia
(C) hypercarbia
(D) mechanical ventilation
(E) positive end-expiratory pressure

A patient who is scheduled for emergency debridement of an infected wound on the sole has trismus, rigidity of facial muscles, and spasms of the intercostal muscles, diaphragm, and extremities. During anesthesia, this patient is at increased risk for each of the following EXCEPT
(A) hypotension
(B) hypertension
(C) tachycardia
(D) diaphoresis
(E) hypothermia

Each of the following is an effect of acute preoperative oral administration of clonidine EXCEPT
(A) sedation
(B) respiratory depression
(C) decreased intraoperative plasma catecholamine concentrations
(D) decreased MAC of inhalational anesthetics
(E) decreased perioperative opioid requirement

When used for irrigation during transurethral resection of the prostate, glycine 1.5% is associated with each of the following EXCEPT
(A) hemolysis
(B) hyperammonemia
(C) cerebral edema
(D) hypofibrinogencmia
(E) visual disturbances

A patient with cirrhosis presenting for liver transplantation is likely to exhibit each of the following EXCEPT
(A) decreased cardiac output
(B) decreased serum glucose concentration (0 decreased serum sodium concentration
(D) decreased systemic vascular resistance
(E) increased alveolar-arterial oxygen tension difference

Each of the following increases arterial to end-tidal carbon dioxide tension difference EXCEPT
(A) addition of positive-end expiratory pressure
(B) deliberate hypotension
(C) endobronchial intubation
(D) hypovolemia
(E) pulmonary embolism

Each of the following parameters of cerebral perfusion and metabolism is approximately equal to 50 EXCEPT
(A) cerebral oxygen consumption in ml 02/min for a normal adult
(B) lower limit of mean arterial pressure for cerebral autoregulation in mmHg
(C) normal cerebral blood flow in ml /100 g tissue/min
(D) PaO, at which cerebral blood flow increases
(E) PaCO, at which cerebral blood flow doubles

Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure is NOT a reliable estimate of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure when
(A) junctional cardiac rhythm is present
(B) mitral insufficiency is present
(C) pulmonary compliance is decreased
(D) pulmonary hypertension is present
(E) the catheter tip is in zone 1 of the lung
