
The need for increased doses of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants in patients with extensive burns is best explained by
(A) increased protein binding
(B) hypermetabolism
(C) increased glomerular filtration rate
(D) proliferation of receptors on burned muscle
(E) decreased volume of distribution

Which of the following parts of the infant's airway determines the appropriate diameter of a nasotracheal tube?
(A) Nares
(B) Glottis
(C) Vocal cords
(D) Cricoid cartilage
(E) Third tracheal ring

Administration of 200 mEq of sodium bicarbonate during cardiopulmonary resuscitation is associated with
(A) CSF alkalosis
(B) hypercalcemia
(C) hypercarbia
(D) hyperkalemia
(E) shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve to the right

When compared with diazepam, midazolam
(A) metabolites contribute more significantly to the sedative effect
(B) elimination is less dependent on hepatic metabolism
(C) has more predictable action after intramuscular administration
(D) produces less respiratory depression
(E) produces less hypotension during induction of anesthesia with opioids

Which of the following statements concerning a patient who has been receiving nitroprusside for several days is true?
(A) Biotransformation of cyanide requires a sulfur donor
(B) Formation of methemoglobin increases cyanide toxicity
(C) Increased serum thiocyanate concentrations are innocuous
(D) Mixed venous P02 decreases as cyanide toxicity develops
(E) Serum thiocyanate concentrations reflect the degree of cyanide toxicity

Which of the following increases the cephalad spread of hyperbaric intrathecal local anesthetics?
(A) Cephalad-directed needle bevel
(B) Coughing
(C) Lithotomy position
(D) Obesity
(E) Rapid injection

Compared with a patient without liver disease, a patient with cirrhosis will have
(A) greater accumulation of vecuronium with infusion
(B) increased unbound plasma vecuronium concentration
(C) more frequent occurrence of phase II block after succinylcholine administration
(D) prolonged elimination half-life of atracurium
(E) unchanged volume of distribution for pancuronium

Intrathecally administered opioids exert their analgesic effects primarily in the
(A) brain stem
(B) fourth ventricle
(C) spinal nerve roots
(D) spinothalamic tracts
(E) substantia gelatinosa

During laser excision of vocal cord polyps in a 5-year-old boy, dark smoke suddenly appears in the surgical field. The trachea is intubated and anesthesia is being maintained with halothane, nitrous oxide, and oxygen. The most appropriate initial step is to
(A) change from oxygen and nitrous oxide to air
(B) fill the oropharynx with water
(C) instill water into the endotracheal tube
(D) remove the endotracheal tube
(E) ventilate with carbon dioxide

During craniotomy in the sitting position, end-tidal carbon dioxide tension suddenly decreases. Ventilatory excursion of the chest is normal. Further evaluation is most likely to show a decrease in
(A) alveolar-to-arterial oxygen tension difference
(B) alveolar-to-arterial carbon dioxide tension difference
(C) dead space ventilation
(D) pulmonary artery pressure
(E) pulmonary artery occlusion pressure

Which of the following is a cardiorespiratory effect of epidural block to a T4 sensory level?
(A) Decreased expiratory reserve volume
(B) Decreased tidal volume
(C) Increased circulating catecholamine concentrations
(D) Increased heart rate
(E) Unchanged vital capacity

A 67-year-old man undergoes spinal anesthesia with hyperbaric tetracaine 10 mg for transurethral resection of the prostate. At the end of the 50-minute procedure, the level of anesthesia is T6 and blood pressure is 120/70 mmHg. Within two minutes after transfer to a stretcher, the patient has nausea and blood pressure decreases to 76/42 mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the acute hypotension?
(A) Acute congestive heart failure
(B) Decreased venous return
(C) Dilutional hyponatremia
(D) Progression of sympathetic block
(E) Unrecognized bladder perforation

A 26-year-old woman has persistent uterine bleeding following a normal spontaneous delivery without anesthesia. The uterus is firm on manual examination. Which of the following anesthetics is most appropriate for manual extraction of the placenta?
(A) Halothane
(B) Pudendal block with lidocaine
(C) Subarachnoid tetracaine
(D) Thiopental
(E) Vecuronium

Compared with intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV), intermittent mandatory ventilation (IMV)
(A) better maintains cardiac output
(B) provides less than full mechanical ventilatory support
(C) requires a greater level of sedation
(D) requires a higher Fl02
(E) requires a lower inspiratory flow rate

Which of the following findings would be considered normal in the EEG of an adult?
(A) Decreased frequency during induction with halogenated anesthetics
(B) Decreased frequency in frontal areas with administration of nitrous oxide 50%
(C) Dominance of beta rhythm at 20 to 30 Hz during the awake relaxed state
(D) Electrical silence with administration of isoflurane 2.5 MAC
(E) The presence of burst-suppression during natural sleep

Proper zeroing of an arterial pressure transducer attached to a supine anesthetized patient is best accomplished by
(A) continuous flow of fluid through the intravascular catheter
(B) opening the system to air at heart level
(C) placement of the transducer diaphragm at heart level
(D) proper damping of the transducer system
(E) zeroing the transducer during the expiration phase of mechanical ventilation

A 1-month-old infant becomes hypoxemic faster during apnea than an adult. Which of the following is the primary cause of this difference?
(A) Functional residual capacity in an infant is half that of an adult
(B) Metabolic rate in an infant is twice that of an adult
(C) Resting Pa02 in an infant is lower than that in an adult
(D) The number of alveoli in an infant is 12% the number in an adult
(E) The hemoglobin dissociation curve in an infant is shifted to the right

During extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy, the shock wave should be synchronized with
(A) the P wave of the ECG
(B) the R wave of the ECG
(C) the T wave of the ECG
(D) peak inspiration
(E) end-expiration

Which of the following statements concerning hyperkalemia after succinylcholine administration to a patient with a spinal cord injury is true?
(A) It is unlikely to occur if the lesion is located below T6
(B) It is unlikely to occur within 24 hours of the injury
(C) It is unlikely to occur more than 60 days after the initial injury
(D) It is prevented by pretreatment with small doses of a nondepolarizing agent
(E) It is decreased in magnitude by pretreatment with calcium chloride

The severity of chronic bronchitis is best assessed by measuring
(A) tidal volume
(B) carbon dioxide diffusion capacity
(C) sputum production over 24 hours
(D) forced vital capacity
(E) arterial blood gases

An 8-kg, 1-year-old boy is scheduled for a bilateral inguinal hernia repair. If regional anesthesia is to be used for post-operative analgesia, which of the following statements is true?
(A) Caudal administration of 0.25% bupivacaine will provide analgesia without evidence of motor block
(B) Caudal administration of 0.125% bupivacaine is as effective as caudal administration of 0.25% bupivacaine
(C) Caudal analgesia is more difficult to achieve in young children than in adults
(D) The recommended volume of local anesthetic used for caudal analgesia in children is 3 ml per year of age
(E) The volume of 0.25% bupivacaine required for bilateral ilioinguinal and iliohypogastric nerve blocks would be too large

After inserting a left-sided double-lumen endotracheal tube, both cuffs are inflated. When the right (tracheal) lumen is clamped, breath sounds are heard only in the lower right lung field. When the left (bronchial) lumen is clamped, breath sounds are heard over the entire left lung field. Where is the tube positioned?
(A) Tracheal orifice above the carina and bronchial limb in the right bronchus
(B) Tracheal orifice above the carina and bronchial limb in the left bronchus
(C) Tracheal orifice and bronchial limb both above the carina
(D) Tracheal cuff and bronchial limb both in the right bronchus
(E) Tracheal orifice and bronchial limb both in the left bronchus

A 27-year-old man with type I von Willebrand's disease requires internal fixation of an open fracture of the femur. Prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet count are normal. During surgery, there is significant oozing from the wound and the surgeon notes poor clot quality. The most appropriate therapy at this time is administration of
(A) cryoprecipitate
(B) desmopressin
(C) fresh frozen plasma
(D) lyophilized factor VII concentrate
(E) platelets

A 30-year-old man is brought to the emergency department after being rescued from a house fire. With the trachea intubated and Fl02 at 1.0, arterial blood gas values are Pa02 495 mmHg, PaC02 28 mmHg, and pH 7.28. Hemoglobin saturation measured by co-oximeter is 50%. The most appropriate next step is to
(A) add positive end-expiratory pressure
(B) add n-acetylcysteine to the inhaled gases
(C) administer sodium bicarbonate intravenously
(D) transfuse 2 units of packed red blood cells
(E) transfer to a hyperbaric chamber

A 60-kg, 45-year-old woman who takes digoxin for atrial fibrillation receives furosemide 40 mg and mannitol 60 g during resection of a supratentorial meningioma. After initiation of hyperventilation to decrease PaC02 from 35 to 20 mmHg, multifocal premature ventricular contractions are noted on the ECG. The most likely cause is
(A) acute hypokalemia
(B) cerebral ischemia
(C) impending herniation of the brain stem
(D) paradoxical air embolism
(E) surgical manipulation of the meningioma

A 50-year-old woman with subarachnoid hemorrhage and left hemiparesis undergoes clipping of a right cerebral aneurysm. On the second postoperative day, mental status deteriorates. Blood pressure is 110/70 mmHg. A cerebral angiogram shows vasospasm. The most appropriate management is to
(A) administer dexamethasone
(B) administer mannitol
(C) administer phentolamine
(D) expand intravascular volume
(E) intubate and hyperventilate to a PaC02 of 28 mmHg

Which of the following statements concerning cerebral blood flow (CBF) during anesthesia is true?
(A) CBF changes minimally when PaC02 increases from 30 to 40 mmHg
(B) CBF changes minimally when P02 decreases from 160 to 100 mmHg
(C) CBF is autoregulated when mean arterial pressure is 40 mmHg
(D) CBF is coupled to cerebral metabolism during isoflurane anesthesia
(E) CBF is unaffected by 1.2% isoflurane at a PaC02 of 40 mmHg

Which of the following drugs is contraindicated in patients with Parkinson's disease?
(A) Atropine
(B) Dopamine
(C) Droperidol
(D) Fentanyl
(E) Isoflurane

A 70-kg patient with no acute bleeding has a preoperative platelet count of 40,000/mm3. Following preoperative trans¬fusion of platelets 10 units, the predicted platelet count would be
(A) 50,000/mm3
(B) 80,000/mm3
(C) 90,000/mm3
(D) 140,000/mm3
(E) 190,000/mm3

Two hours after coronary artery bypass grafting, a 60-year-old man has a heart rate of 140 bpm and blood pressure of 80/60 mmHg. Cardiac index is 1.5 L/min/m2. Central venous pressure is 23 mmHg with large a-waves in the right atrial pressure tracing. A pulsus paradoxus of 6 mmHg is noted. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
(A) Atrial flutter
(B) Cardiac tamponade
(C) Hypovolemia
(D) Junctional tachycardia
(E) Tension pneumothorax

Which of the following is the strongest indication for one-lung ventilation?
(A) Descending thoracic aortic aneurysm
(B) Esophageal resection
(C) Lobectomy for lung abscess
(D) Lobectomy for tumor
(E) Pneumonectomy for tumor

In a 65-year-old man, which of the following findings on preoperative pulmonary function testing is associated with the highest risk for respiratory insufficiency following pneumonectomy?
(A) Maximum voluntary ventilation at 65% of predicted
(B) Mean pulmonary artery pressure of 28 mmHg
(C) Predicted postoperative forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV,) of 800 ml
(D) Residual volume to total lung capacity (RV/TLC) ratio of 0.35
(E) Vital capacity of 3 liters

During transurethral resection of the prostate, intravascular absorption of glycine irrigant most commonly produces
(A) alkalosis
(B) hemolysis
(C) hypertension
(D) tachycardia
(E) wheezing

A 2.2-kg, 6-hour-old neonate is to undergo gastrostomy followed by repair of a tracheoesophageal fistula. During induction with halothane, air, and oxygen, the abdomen becomes distended. Appropriate management is to
(A) intubate and assist spontaneous ventilation
(B) intubate and control ventilation
(C) insert an orogastric tube
(D) allow the patient to breathe spontaneously by mask until gastrostomy
(E) control ventilation by mask until gastrostomy

Which of the following is an advantage of a circle system over a Mapleson D system?
(A) Better anesthetic conservation
(B) Lower dead space
(C) Lower circuit resistance
(D) More efficient scavenging
(E) More rapid changes in inspired gas concentration

A 27-year-old man with a one-month history of quadriplegia at a C6 level is given general anesthesia for cystoscopy. During the cystoscopy, blood pressure suddenly increases to 220/120 mmHg. Further evaluation is most likely to show
(A) atrial fibrillation (ventricular rate 100 bpm)
(B) paroxysmal atrial tachycardia (150 bpm)
(C) sinus bradycardia
(D) piloerection above the level of C6
(E) sweating above the level of C6

Which of the following is the primary factor regulating normal coronary blood flow?
(A) Aortic diastolic pressure
(B) Coronary perfusion pressure
(C) Heart rate
(D) Myocardial oxygen consumption
(E) Systolic wall tension

Which of the following statements concerning pressure support ventilation is true?
(A) Continuous positive airway pressure is provided during inspiration and expiration
(B) Delivered tidal volume remains the same with decreasing lung compliance
(C) Inspiratory effort less than -2 cmH20 is not assisted
(D) The overall work of breathing decreases when weaning from mechanical ventilation
(E) The patient will need more sedation than during intermittent mandatory ventilation

If administered epidurally in equipotent doses, which of the following opioids will produce analgesia over the greatest number of dermatomes?
(A) Fentanyl
(B) Hydromorphone
(C) Meperidine
(D) Morphine
(E) Sufentanil

Which of the following is decreased by alkalinization of a 1.5% lidocaine solution?
(A) Concentration of free base
(B) Dose required for anesthesia
(C) Duration of anesthesia
(D) Intracellular concentration of ionized lidocaine
(E) Time to onset of anesthesia

Cyanide toxicity from nitroprusside is unlikely in patients with renal dysfunction because
(A) renal excretion of thiosulfate is decreased
(B) metabolic acidosis inactivates cyanide
(C) anemia inhibits breakdown of nitroprusside by oxyhemoglobin
(D) thiocyanate is formed in the liver
(E) the dose of nitroprusside necessary to lower blood pressure is greatly decreased

Twelve hours after an uneventful hysterectomy with lidocaine epidural anesthesia, a 70-year-old woman has partial paralysis of the lower extremities. She is receiving morphine 0.5 mg/hr through an epidural catheter and is pain free. On examination, definite motor loss is noted in the lower extremities, but no other deficits are apparent. The most appropriate action at this time is to
(A) administer naloxone
(B) substitute fentanyl for morphine infusion
(C) remove the epidural catheter
(D) obtain an MRI of the lumbar spine
(E) reassure the patient

Equipment that is attached to a patient should have leakage current no greater than
(A) 10 microamps
(B) 100 microamps
(C) 1 milliamp
(D) 10 milliamps
(E) 100 milliamps

When the inspired gas is changed from air to 20% oxygen and 80% nitrous oxide, Pa02 increases because
(A) increased pulmonary artery pressure perfuses alveoli that previously enhanced dead space
(B) nitrous oxide stimulates the respiratory center
(C) rapid absorption of nitrous oxide increases alveolar oxygen concentration
(D) replacement of nitrogen by nitrous oxide expands atelectatic alveoli
(E) respiratory depression from nitrous oxide shifts the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve

Which of the following characteristics of local anesthetics is associated with long duration of action?
(A) High degree of lipid solubility
(B) High degree of protein binding
(C) High molecular weight
(D) High pKa
(E) Presence of ester linkage

Which of the following drugs used to produce or reverse muscle relaxation has the greatest prolongation of action in a patient with end-stage renal disease?
(A) Atracurium
(B) Neostigmine
(C) Pancuronium
(D) Succinylcholine
(E) Vecuronium

In a patient with chronic congestive heart failure, the safest pharmacologic approach to brain swelling during a craniotomy is
(A) dexamethasone
(B) furosemide
(C) mannitol
(D) thiopental
(E) urea

In clinical anesthesia practice, the term "informed consent" is best described as a legal concept in which patients
(A) agree to anesthesia care based on full disclosure of facts needed to make the decision intelligently
(B) are told of all possible risks of anesthesia and anesthetic procedures
(C) delegate all decisions regarding anesthesia care to the anesthesiologist
(D) release the physicians from liability
(E) sign global consent forms for surgical procedures that cover the administration of anesthesia care

The low fetal/maternal plasma ratio of bupivacaine compared with lidocaine is due to
(A) fetal tissue binding
(B) fetal plasma protein binding
(C) maternal plasma protein binding
(D) ionization in maternal blood
(E) ionization in fetal blood

A previously healthy 28-year-old man is admitted to the emergency department with a probable opioid overdose. Arterial blood gas values are: Pa02 49 mmHg, PaC02 76 mmHg, and pH 7.12 while breathing room air. Which of the following statements is true?
(A) Aspiration of gastric contents must have occurred
(B) Hypoventilation alone can explain the acidosis and hypoxemia
(C) The hypoxemia is probably due to noncardiogenic pulmonary edema
(D) Naloxone should be administered only if the patient is normothermic
(E) Pure oxygen is contraindicated

In which of the following clinical circumstances does down-regulation of beta-adrenergic receptors occur?
(A) Chronic congestive heart failure
(B) Hypothyroidism
(C) Long-term clonidine administration
(D) Long-term metoprolol administration
(E) Stable angina

Which of the following is the most likely cause of apnea occurring after a retrobulbar block?
(A) Epidural injection
(B) Increased intracranial pressure
(C) Oculopontine reflex
(D) Ophthalmic artery injection
(E) Subarachnoid injection

A 40-year-old man is undergoing open reduction and internal fixation of a fractured femur. During anesthesia with fentanyl, enflurane, and oxygen, heart rate decreases to 20 bpm and 6 premature ventricular contractions per minute are noted. No pulse is detected. The most appropriate next step is to
(A) administer atropine
(B) administer epinephrine
(C) administer lidocaine
(D) apply a transthoracic pacemaker
(E) start cardiopulmonary resuscitation

A 35-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus is admitted to the critical care unit following sudden onset of severe chest pain. Examination shows tachycardia, hypotension, pulmonary edema, and a blowing systolic murmur in the left parasternal region. The most appropriate management is
(A) aerosol administration of terbutaline
(B) intravenous infusion of phenylephrine and nitroglycerin
(C) intravenous infusion of esmolol
(D) intravenous infusion of epinephrine and nitroprusside
(E) volume loading with lactated Ringer's solution

A 66-year-old patient with aortic stenosis is scheduled for aortic valve replacement. Examination shows blood pressure of 110/60 mmHg and sinus rhythm at a rate of 75 bpm. Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP) is 20 mmHg with a prominent a-wave on the tracing. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Increasing myocardial contractility
(B) Maintaining PAOP below 20 mmHg
(C) Maintaining sinus rhythm
(D) Promoting mild tachycardia
(E) Decreasing peripheral resistance

During rapid-sequence induction prior to an emergency surgical procedure, a 20-year-old patient vomits gastric contents containing particulate matter. An endotracheal tube is easily inserted and ventilation with pure oxygen is initiated. Despite the presence of bilateral breath sounds, Sp02 is 90%. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
(A) Administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics
(B) Intravenous administration of high-dose methylprednisolone
(C) Bronchial lavage with normal saline solution
(D) Bronchoscopy to remove particulate matter
(E) Cancellation of the surgical procedure

The gauge pressure on a cylinder of nitrous oxide
(A) varies with the size of the cylinder
(B) is the same for full and half-full cylinders
(C) is the same as that of a full cylinder of oxygen if both are full
(D) is independent of the temperature of the cylinder
(E) reliably indicates the amount of nitrous oxide in the cylinder

Immediately after sustaining severe head injury, a 20-year-old man has a blood pressure of 150/90 mmHg and an intra cranial pressure of 35 mmHg. After one hour of thiopental infusion, blood pressure is 105/60 mmHg, intracranial pres sure is 20 mmHg, central venous pressure is 5 mmHg, and temperature is 36°C. The EEG shows slow-wave activity. The most appropriate next step is administration of
(A) additional thiopental
(B) a corticosteroid
(C) furosemide
(D) nimodipine
(E) phenylephrine

Following induction of anesthesia with sufentanil and pancuronium, a patient with left main coronary artery disease has a decrease in blood pressure from 110/70 to 60/40 mmHg. There is no change in heart rate or ECG. The most appropriate management of the hypotension is administration of
(A) calcium chloride
(B) ephedrine
(C) epinephrine
(D) isoproterenol
(E) phenylephrine

In a 35-year-old patient, which of the following is associated with an increased duration of clinical narcosis following infusion of a total dose of 10 mg/kg thiopental over three hours?
(A) Alcoholism in remission
(B) Asthma
(C) Fever
(D) Obesity
(E) Use of appetite suppressants

A previously healthy, 60-kg, 17-year-old boy is undergoing emergency surgery for a gunshot wound involving the iliac vein. Ventilation is controlled with a tidal volume of 700 ml/breath, rate of 10/min, and peak inspiratory pressure of 30 cmH20. Body temperature is normal. The most likely cause of an end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure of 16 mmHg is
(A) endobronchial intubation
(B) excessive expiratory time
(C) excessive tidal volume
(D) low cardiac output
(E) pulmonary aspiration

Which of the following statements concerning anesthetic management for MRIs is true?
(A) ECG wires are associated with patient burns
(B) Mechanical ventilation of the lungs is not feasible
(C) Monitors with ferromagnetic components may be used
(D) Oxygen analysis of inspired gas is inaccurate
(E) Pulse oximetry is not reliable near the MR scanner

Intraocular pressure is
(A) decreased by glycopyrrolate
(B) increased by hyperventilation
(C) decreased by halothane
(D) increased by nondepolarizing muscle relaxants
(E) increased by phenylephrine eye drops

Compared with adult hemoglobin, which of the following is a characteristic of fetal hemoglobin?
(A) It has a greater oxygen-carrying capacity
(B) It has a lower P50
(C) It is more likely to cause an artifactual increase in Sp02
(D) It is more likely to sickle
(E) It unloads oxygen more readily at the tissues

Which of the following is most effective in decontaminating an anesthesia machine that was splattered with HIV-contaminated blood?
(A) Bleach
(B) De-ionized water
(C) Ethylene oxide
(D) Hydrogen peroxide
(E) Isopropyl alcohol

Which of the following is greater in an obese patient than in a nonobese patient of equal height?
(A) Milliliters of local anesthetic required for epidural block
(B) Milligrams of succinylcholine required for intubation
(C) Clearance of diazepam
(D) Clearance of fentanyl
(E) Oxygen consumption per body surface area

The best premedication regimen for a known active narcotic addict would include
(A) secobarbital
(B) diazepam
(C) nalbuphine
(D) morphine
(E) droperidol

During cardiopulmonary bypass at a nasopharyngeal temperature of 28°C and a hematocrit of 20%, temperature-corrected PaC02 is 50 mmHg and uncorrected PaC02 is 60 mmHg. The most appropriate management is to
(A) administer additional opioid
(B) administer packed red blood cells to increase hematocrit to 25%
(C) further decrease the patient's temperature
(D) increase fresh gas flow to the oxygenator
(E) institute mechanical ventilation

Two days after coronary artery bypass grafting, a 62-year-old man remains sedated, tracheally intubated, and mechanically ventilated with full neuromuscular block. Over the next three hours, Pa02 decreases from 90 to 70 mmHg at an Fl02 of 0.7, peak inspiratory pressure measured proximally in the ventilatory circuit increases from 40 to 66 cmH20, and plateau pressure remains unchanged at 30 cmH20. Which of the following is the most likely cause of these changes?
(A) Adult respiratory distress syndrome
(B) Bronchial mucus plugging
(C) Left ventricular failure
(D) Lobar pneumonia
(E) Tension pneumothorax

A combined epidural and general anesthetic is used for aortofemoral bypass surgery. Just prior to extubation, the patient received morphine 5 mg through the epidural catheter. Eleven hours later, he is unresponsive while breathing 40% oxygen from a face mask. Respiratory rate is 6/min and Sp02 is 92%. Arterial blood gas analysis shows Pa02 80 mmHg, PaC02 84 mmHg, and pH 7.16. Which of the following statements concerning this patient is true?
(A) Hypercarbia is contributing to the decreased level of consciousness
(B) Naloxone is ineffective for reversing the respiratory depression
(C) The oxygen saturation is higher than expected because of the pH
(D) The risk for respiratory depression would have been lower with subarachnoid administration of 0.5 mg morphine
(E) Residual local anesthetic is contributing to the respiratory depression

A rapid shallow ventilatory pattern is most energy efficient for a patient who
(A) has a low ratio of forced expiratory volume in one second to vital capacity (FEV^VC)
(B) has a high ratio of tidal volume to vital capacity, and diminished vital capacity
(C) has increased pulmonary compliance
(D) is using the accessory muscles of respiration
(E) has increased airway resistance

A 70-year-old patient has absence of the left radial pulse one month after repair of an aortic aneurysm. Arterial pressure was monitored perioperatively with a 20-gauge left radial artery catheter. Which of the following statements concerning this complication is true?
(A) A preoperative Allen's test would have predicted this complication
(B) Stellate ganglion block should be performed
(C) This complication would have been less likely with an 18-gauge catheter
(D) This patient has poor collateral circulation in the hand
(E) The pulse will likely return

Five minutes after intrathecal administration of tetracaine 12 mg in hyperbaric solution, a 60-year-old man has a weak hand grasp. Respirations are normal, heart rate has decreased from 80 to 45 bpm, and blood pressure has decreased from 150/80 to 90/50 mmHg. The most appropriate management at this time is
(A) administration of atropine
(B) administration of ephedrine
(C) administration of phenylephrine
(D) placement of the patient in the head-down position
(E) observation

A burn is found at the site of the electrocautery pad. Which of the following is most likely?
(A) The electrosurgical unit was in the bipolar mode
(B) The electrocautery pad became partially detached
(C) The electrosurgical unit ground wire was severed
(D) The line-isolation monitor alarmed
(E) The patient became grounded

Which property of oxygen is detected by the fail-safe device on the anesthesia machine?
(A) Concentration
(B) Flow
(C) Pressure
(D) Partial pressure
(E) Reserve volume

Which of the following nerves should be blocked for an operation at the medial aspect of the lower leg?
(A) Femoral
(B) Sciatic
(C) Obturator
(D) Common peroneal
(E) Tibial

Which of the following is most effective in preventing intraoperative hypothermia in adults?
(A) Heating and humidifying inspired gases
(B) Maintaining a warm operating room
(C) Using a circulating warm-water mattress
(D) Using reflective coverings
(E) Warming intravenous fluids

The effect of succinylcholine is terminated at postsynaptic effector cells by
(A) binding and uptake by effector cells
(B) diffusion into capillaries
(C) hydrolysis by junctional cholinesterase
(D) hydrolysis by pseudocholinesterase
(E) spontaneous degradation to succinylmonocholine

A patient with alcoholic cirrhosis, ascites, and gastrointestinal bleeding receives 4 units of red blood cells prior to anesthesia with isoflurane in oxygen for emergency exploratory laparotomy. After the peritoneum is opened and the fluid is drained, blood pressure decreases to 60/40 mmHg and Sp02 decreases to 90%. The most likely cause of the hypox¬emia is
(A) acute myocardial ischemia
(B) decreased 2,3-diphosphoglycerate in transfused blood
(C) increased intrapulmonary shunting
(D) relative hypovolemia
(E) venous air embolism

Which of the following statements concerning barbiturate protection from cerebral ischemia is true?
(A) It may be achieved with dosages low enough to avoid cardiovascular effects
(B) It is linearly dose-related
(C) It improves neurologic outcome following cardiac arrest
(D) It is most useful in patients with focal ischemia
(E) It is unrelated to EEG activity

A 77-year-old woman is still intubated and breathing spontaneously following a total hip replacement. The muscle relaxant has been reversed. Tidal volume is 400 ml, end-tidal carbon dioxide tension is 45 mmHg, and Sp02 is 98% at an Fi02 of 1.0. On transfer from the operating table to the gurney, heart rate increases from 65 to 100 bpm and blood pressure decreases from 130/80 to 80/50 mmHg. End-tidal carbon dioxide tension is 30 mmHg and Sp02 is 94%. The most likely diagnosis is
(A) anaphylactic reaction
(B) bronchospasm
(C) myocardial infarction
(D) pulmonary embolism
(E) unreplaced blood loss

A 40-year-old woman has continuous nondermatomal burning pain of the distal foot four weeks after sustaining a metatarsal fracture. On examination, the foot is mildly swollen, tender, and cool. Which of the following statements concerning this condition is true?
(A) A radiograph of the distal bones of the painful foot will show severe osteoporosis
(B) A technetium scan of the distal joints of the painful foot will show decreased uptake
(C) Early use of opioid analgesia will prevent progression of the symptoms
(D) Intravenous phentolamine will relieve the pain
(E) The chance of spontaneous recovery within eight weeks is greater than 80%

Evaluation of a postoperative neurologic deficit discloses inability to oppose the thumb and little finger, weakness of abduction of the thumb, and loss of flexion of the distal phalanx of the index finger. This problem is most likely related to
(A) paresthesia occurring during an interscalene brachial plexus block
(B) attempted radial artery cannulation at the wrist
(C) inadequate padding under the elbow
(D) attempted venipuncture in the antecubital fossa
(E) abduction of the upper humerus against an "ether screen"

Arterial oxyhemoglobin desaturation develops more rapidly following apnea in a pregnant patient at term than in a nonpregnant patient with a large intra-abdominal tumor. Which of the following findings in pregnancy is the most likely cause?
(A) Higher cardiac output
(B) Higher oxygen consumption
(C) Larger anatomic dead space
(D) Smaller blood volume
(E) Smaller functional residual capacity

Which of the following best describes the relationship between cerebral perfusion pressure and cerebral blood flow in a patient with untreated chronic hypertension?
(A) It is constant at mean blood pressures between 50 and 150 mmHg
(B) It is linear for all blood pressures
(C) Flow versus pressure curve is hyperbolic
(D) Flow versus pressure curve is shifted to the right
(E) Flow versus pressure curve is shifted to the left

The accuracy of oxyhemoglobin saturation determined by digital pulse oximetry is affected significantly by each of the following EXCEPT
(A) movement of the patient
(B) isovolemic hemodilution to a hematocrit of 23%
(C) position of the operating room light
(D) intravenous administration of methylene blue
(E) infusion of phenylephrine

The use of droperidol as a preanesthetic medication has been associated with each of the following EXCEPT
(A) acute anxiety
(B) anterograde amnesia
(C) hypotension
(D) extrapyramidal signs
(E) catalepsy

Each of the following changes is expected with deliberate hypothermia EXCEPT
(A) decreased unloading of oxygen from hemoglobin
(B) a 5% decrease in MAC for each 1°C decrease in temperature
(C) increased arterial oxygen and carbon dioxide contents
(D) a 50% decrease in cerebral metabolic rate at 28°C
(E) spike and dome EEG activity at temperatures below 30°C

Each of the following drugs is a cause of central anticholinergic syndrome EXCEPT
(A) amitriptyline
(B) atropine
(C) diphenhydramine
(D) promethazine
(E) ranitidine

A 24-year-old woman requires anesthesia for emergency repair of open fractures of the tibia and fibula. She used cocaine two hours ago. Blood pressure is 170/110 mmHg. Each of the following is useful in managing the hypertension EXCEPT
(A) hydralazine
(B) labetalol
(C) nitroprusside
(D) phentolamine
(E) propranolol

Carbon monoxide poisoning with a carboxyhemoglobin concentration of 20% is characterized by each of the following EXCEPT
(A) decreased oxygen-carrying capacity of hemoglobin
(B) decreased Pa02
(C) shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve to the left
(D) normal minute volume of ventilation
(E) headache and nausea

A 40-year-old woman receives alfentanil 75 /xg/kg followed by an infusion of 1.5 u-g/kg/min for a one-hour cholecystectomy and cholangiogram. This regimen could be associated with each of the following EXCEPT
(A) muscle rigidity
(B) increased biliary tract pressure
(C) inadequate anesthesia
(D) postoperative respiratory depression
(E) two to four hours of postoperative analgesia

Monitoring sensory evoked potentials may be useful in detecting functional derangement of each of the following EXCEPT
(A) cranial nerve pathways during posterior fossa operations
(B) motor pathways during anterior cervical diskectomy
(C) dorsal column pathways during operations for spinal tumors
(D) visual pathways during operations on the sphenoid wing
(E) cortical pathways during carotid artery operations

Which of the following drugs is LEAST likely to cross the placenta?
(A) Lidocaine
(B) Meperidine
(C) Midazolam
(D) Thiopental
(E) Vecuronium
