
Which of the following can be used as a sole criterion for brain death?
(A) Absence of cerebral blood flow
(B) Absence of doll's eye movements
(C) Fixed, dilated pupils
(D) Isoelectric EEG
(E) Unresponsiveness to all externally applied stimuli

A 62-year-old man is scheduled for coronary artery bypass grafting. During induction of anesthesia with fentanyl, high peak inspiratory pressures occur with manual ventilation, and peripheral oxygen saturation decreases from 100% to 94%. The most appropriate management is administration of
(A) albuterol
(B) isoflurane
(C) midazolam
(D) nitroglycerin
(E) succinylcholine

Statistical analysis of 20 patients shows a mean cardiac output (CO) of 5 L/min with a standard deviation of 1 L/min. The distribution pattern in the sample population is normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion?
(A) Approximately 33% of the sample population would be expected to have a CO between 4 and 6 L/min
(B) Approximately 95% of the sample population would be expected to have a CO between 3 and 7 L/min
(C) Ten of the sample patients have a cardiac output greater than 5 L/min
(D) The mean and the median are both at the 50th percentile
(E) The median and the mode are the same in the sample population

A 67-kg, 52-year-old man is undergoing heart transplantation. After implantation of the donor heart and discontinuation of cardiopulmonary bypass, isoproterenol is administered intravenously to maintain heart rate greater than 100 bpm. During the next 10 minutes, blood pressure decreases from 105/55 mmHg to 75/40 mmHg. Heart rate is 102 bpm and cardiac output is 5.8 L/min. The most appropriate management is administration of
(A) amrinone
(B) digoxin
(C) dopamine
(D) epinephrine
(E) norepinephrine

At equipotent doses, which of the following opioids is most likely to migrate cephalad in cerebrospinal fluid after epidural administration?
(A) Fentanyl
(B) Hydromorphone
(C) Meperidine
(D) Morphine
(E) Sufentanil

A patient sustains cardiac arrest while being mechanically ventilated. Which of the following is the most likely effect on PETCO,?
(A) Gradual increase with the duration of asystole
(B) Maintenance of the prearrest value
(C) Abrupt decrease below the prearrest value
(D) Decrease when thoracic compression is started
(E) Gradual decrease independent of the ventilator cycle

Which of the following statements concerning caudal anesthesia in children is true?
(A) The dural sac extends further caudad than in adults
(B) Delay of postoperative micturition occurs in most patients
(C) The sensory level of analgesia is poorly correlated with the dose of local anesthetic
(D) It is technically difficult because of poorly defined sacral anatomy
(E) It is contraindicated in infants younger than 1 year of age

Which of the following decreases the clearance of atracurium?
(A) Administration of cimetidine
(B) Cholinesterase deficiency
(C) Hepatic insufficiency
(D) Hypothermia
(E) Renal insufficiency

Which of the following interventions is most effective in preventing neurologic injury resulting from global cerebral ischemia?
(A) Induction of barbiturate coma prior to ischemia
(B) Maintenance of serum glucose concentration greater than 200 mg/dl prior to ischemia
(C) Induction of hypothermia to a core temperature of 15∞C prior to ischemia
(D) Maintenance of PaC02 less than 25 mmHg following ischemia
(E) Prevention of systemic hypertension following ischemia

After administration of a single dose of vecuronium, function returns last to which of the following muscles?
(A) Adductor pollicis
(B) Diaphragm
(C) Laryngeal muscles
(D) Orbicularis oculi
(E) Rectus abdominis

A patient is scheduled for right pneumonectomy. A left-sided double-lumen endobronchial tube is inserted. After the endobronchial side is clamped and both cuffs are inflated, breath sounds are heard only on the left. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Herniation of the endobronchial cuff over the carina
(B) Occlusion of the right upper lobe bronchus
(C) Placement of the endobronchial lumen in the left mainstem bronchus
(D) Placement of the endobronchial lumen in the right mainstem bronchus
(E) Placement of the endobronchial lumen in the trachea

A 68-year-old man with severe depression is scheduled for electroconvulsive therapy. He had a myocardial infarction two years ago and continues to have angina on exertion. Pretreatment with which of the following drugs is most likely to maintain stability during the procedure?
(A) Esmolol
(B) Fentanyl
(C) Hydralazine
(D) Lidocaine
(E) Midazolam

A patient has pain in the left thoracic wall associated with metastatic rib lesions. An intrathecal neurolytic block with 6% phenol in glycerin is planned for pain relief. Prior to performing the block, the patient should be placed in which of the following positions?
(A) Left lateral semisupine
(B) Right lateral semisupine
(C) Left lateral semiprone
(D) Right lateral semiprone
(E) Prone

If the oxygen supply pressure of an anesthesia machine exceeds a set value, which of the following safety devices maintains a constant oxygen flowmeter output?
(A) Cylinder pressure regulator
(B) Fail-safe valve
(C) Flow-control valve
(D) Pipeline inlet check valve
(E) Second-stage regulator

A 30-year-old woman develops urticaria immediately after administration of 2% 2-chloroprocaine for removal of a nevus on the chest wall. This reaction resolves with administration of diphenhydramine and the surgery is rescheduled. During the second procedure, a field block is performed using 10 ml of 1% lidocaine from a multidose vial. Within 10 minutes the patient develops urticaria and wheezing and has difficulty breathing. These symptoms resolve with administration of epinephrine. Which of the following substances is the most likely cause of these reactions?
(A) A paraben derivative
(B) Povidone-iodine
(C) Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA)
(D) Propylene glycol
(E) Sodium bisulfite

The carbon dioxide/ventilation response curve
(A) is primarily a measure of the integrity of the peripheral chemoreceptors
(B) shows parallel displacement to the left in the presence of opioids
(C) is linear between a PaC02 of 20 and 120 mmHg
(D) shows progressive changes in slope with increased doses of halogenated anesthetics
(E) is unaffected by a decrease in PaO, to 60 mmHg

Which of the following pre-existing conditions predisposes to new-onset third-degree heart block during pulmonary artery catheterization?
(A) First-degree heart block
(B) Left bundle branch block
(C) Sick sinus syndrome
(D) Sinus bradycardia
(E) Wenckebach second-degree heart block

Mepivacaine 40 ml of a 1% solution with epinephrine 1:200,000 is injected into the brachial plexus sheath at the axilla after eliciting a paresthesia in the ulnar nerve distribution. Which of the following is most likely to remain intact?
(A) Adduction of the thumb
(B) Flexion at the wrist
(C) Sensation of the lateral forearm
(D) Sensation on the palmar surface of the lateral three and one half fingers
(E) Sensation on the palmar surface of the medial one and one half fingers

Which of the following statements concerning intercostal nerve block for postoperative pain is true?
(A) Block at the midaxillary line provides analgesia for the anterior and lateral abdominal walls
(B) Blood levels of local anesthetic are higher than after an axillary block
(C) Intravascular injection is unlikely
(D) Loss of resistance assures proper needle placement
(E) Paravertebral spread is prevented by adding epinephrine to the local anesthetic solution

A 26-year-old patient with multiple trauma is admitted to the intensive care unit postoperatively. The early development of polyuria, hypotension, low urine sodium excretion, high serum osmolality, and normal serum creatinine concentration is best explained by
(A) adrenal insufficiency
(B) fluoride-induced high-output renal failure
(C) inappropriate ADH secretion
(D) intraoperative fluid overload
(E) posterior pituitary insufficiency

Which of the following limits the use of nalbuphine for relief of postoperative pain?
(A) High incidence of nausea and vomiting
(B) High incidence of delayed respiratory depression
(C) Potential for inducing seizures with repeated doses
(D) Relatively low maximal analgesic effect
(E) Short duration of action

A 13-year-old African American boy has severe abdominal pain after debridement of an open fracture of the lower extremity. His hemoglobin concentration is 10 g/dl and a peripheral blood smear shows elongated crescent-shaped erythrocytes. The most appropriate initial therapy is
(A) sodium bicarbonate administration
(B) dopamine infusion
(C) blood transfusion
(D) volume loading with crystalloid
(E) high-dose corticosteroid administration

A tourniquet with dual bladders is being used for intravenous regional anesthesia of the upper extremity. At what point in the procedure should the distal tourniquet be inflated?
(A) During injection of the local anesthetic
(B) After the patient complains of tourniquet pain
(C) Coincident with inflation of the proximal tourniquet
(D) After the proximal tourniquet is deflated
(E) Prior to exsanguination of the limb

A 65-year-old man undergoes prostatectomy in the lithotomy position under spinal anesthesia using bupivacaine 12 nig. Ten hours later, he reports that his left foot is numb. Examination shows decreased pinprick sensation over the lateral dorsal aspect of the left foot; dorsiflexion is limited. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Cauda equina syndrome
(B) Compression of the common peroneal nerve
(C) Compression of the posterior tibial nerve
(D) L5 nerve root damage
(E) Stretching of the sciatic nerve

If the low-pressure alarm of an anesthesia circuit is broken, which of the following monitors will provide the earliest indication of a disconnected ventilator hose?
(A) Fail-safe system
(B) Infrared capnograph
(C) Nitrogen analyzer
(D) Oxygen analyzer
(E) Pulse oximeter

An 80-kg, 70-year-old woman is scheduled for a mastectomy. She has a history of congestive heart failure treated with digoxin 0.25 mg daily. Preoperative examination shows a sinus rhythm at 80 bpm and blood pressure of 110/70 mmHg. Laboratory studies show a serum potassium concentration of 4.2 mEq/L and a serum digoxin concentration of 1.5 jug/ml. Five minutes after induction of general anesthesia, ventricular bigeminy is noted; blood pressure is 85/65 mmHg, Sp02 is 97%, and PETCO, is 20 mmHg. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Administration of calcium chloride
(B) Administration of ephedrine
(C) Administration of lidocaine
(D) Administration of potassium chloride
(E) Decrease in ventilation

During laparotomy for a ruptured spleen, unexplained oozing occurs after infusion of 2 liters of crystalloid and 3 units of blood. The most likely cause is
(A) citrate toxicity
(B) dilutional thrombocytopenia
(C) hemolytic transfusion reaction
(D) labile clotting factor deficiency
(E) leukoagglutinin reaction

Hemodilution is used during profound hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass primarily because it
(A) decreases cold-induced coagulopathy
(B) decreases edema formation
(C) increases oxygen-carrying capacity of plasma
(D) increases oxygen dissociation from hemoglobin
(E) limits the cold-induced increase in blood viscosity

After weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass following mitral valve replacement, a patient's cardiac output is reported to be 3.7 L/min measured by thermodilution technique using 5% dextrose in water 10 ml at room temperature as injec-tate. This value could be falsely high if
(A) normal saline solution were mistakenly used
(B) the patient's hematocrit were still 25%
(C) only 9.0 ml of injectate were used
(D) atrial fibrillation were present
(E) the room were excessively cold

A 95-kg, 65-year-old woman receives enflurane and pancuronium during a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Three minutes after administration of neostigmine 5 mg and atropine 1.2 mg, the twitch height returns to normal. Spontaneous tidal volume is 500 ml when the endotracheal tube is removed. In the PAR she reports dyspnea and appears distressed. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the respiratory distress?
(A) Atelectasis
(B) Cholinergic crisis
(C) Pain
(D) Residual enflurane
(E) Residual muscle paralysis

A 4-year-old child with myelomeningocele and a ventriculoperitoneal shunt is scheduled for bladder augmentation. One year ago, hypotension and bronchospasm occurred during laparotomy for placement of a feeding gastrostomy and responded to fluids and epinephrine. At that time, anesthesia was induced with thiopental, the trachea was intubated with a polyvinyl tracheal tube following administration of succinylcholine, and anesthesia was maintained with halo-thane and nitrous oxide. No diagnostic tests were performed after that incident. Which of the following should be avoided during the bladder augmentation?
(A) Latex gloves
(B) Polyvinyl tracheal tubes
(C) Halothane
(D) Succinylcholine
(E) Thiopental

Increasing preload, systemic vascular resistance, and heart rate will best maintain hemodynamic stability in patients with
(A) aortic stenosis
(B) asymmetric septal hypertrophy (IHSS)
(C) cardiac tamponade
(D) mitral regurgitation
(E) mitral stenosis

Which of the following best describes cardiomyopathy following therapy with doxorubicin (Adriamycin)?
(A) The initial presentation is concentric hypertrophy
(B) The diagnosis is confirmed by a shortened QT interval
(C) It is exacerbated by hyperoxia
(D) It is resistant to inotropic agents
(E) It: may persist for years after therapy is discontinued

The recommended agent for decontamination of anesthetic equipment splattered with blood containing HIV is
(A) household bleach
(B) hydrogen peroxide
(C) iodine solution
(D) isopropyl alcohol
(E) Lysol solution

A patient has an anterior neck injury, hoarseness, labored respirations, subcutaneous emphysema, and laryngeal crepitus following a motor vehicle accident. Which of the following is the best method of securing the airway in this situation?
(A) Blind nasotracheal intubation
(B) Lightwand intubation
(C) Retrograde wire-guided intubation
(D) Tracheostomy
(E) Transtracheal jet ventilation

A 20-year-old patient undergoes a thoracic vertebral stabilization procedure six hours after sustaining an acute transection of the spinal cord at T4. The risks of general anesthesia are greater in this patient than in a patient with an intact spinal cord because of
(A) autonomic hyperreflexia
(B) increased sensitivity to vasoconstrictor agents
(C) increased venous capacitance
(D) interruption of cardiac sympathetic reflexes
(E) hyperkalemia induced by succinylcholine

A 35-year-old patient with asymmetric septal hypertrophy (IHSS) is undergoing bladder suspension with enflurane 1%, nitrous oxide 50%, and oxygen 50%. Immediately after skin incision, blood pressure decreases to 90/60 mmHg and junctional tachycardia of 150 bpm is noted on the ECG. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Decreasing enflurane concentration
(B) Infusion of nitroglycerin
(C) Intravenous administration of a fluid bolus
(D) Intravenous administration of esmolol
(E) Intravenous administration of phenylephrine

An arterial blood sample is obtained from a patient undergoing hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass at 28 C. Analysis at 37 C shows a pH of 7.40 and PaC02 of 40 mmHg. Which of the following values are most likely if the analysis is corrected to 28 C?
(A) pH   7.40; PaCO,  40
(B) pH > 7.40; PaCO, <40
(C) pH > 7.40; PaCO, >40
(D) pH < 7.40; PaCO, <40
(E) pH < 7.40; PaCO, >40

A 1150-g, 10-day-old infant is undergoing a bowel resection for necrotizing enterocolitis. Heart rate is 200 bpm and blood pressure measured through a femoral artery catheter is 45/24 mmHg. The most appropriate next step is administration of
(A) calcium gluconate
(B) epinephrine
(C) esmolol
(D) fentanyl
(E) normal saline solution

A 1100-g, 10-day-old infant is to undergo ligation of a patent ductus arteriosus after unsuccessful medical treatment. Within three minutes of intravenous administration of atropine 20 jug, fentanyl 20 jag, and pancuronium 0.1 mg, systemic blood pressure decreases from 80 to 30 mmHg, heart rate from 180 to 140 bpm, and arterial oxygen saturation from 90% to 80%. The most appropriate management is to
(A) increase FlO,
(B) administer additional atropine
(C) infuse crystalloid
(D) infuse prostaglandin E,
(E) administer phenylephrine

Which of the following is the most common cause of coagulopathy occurring during massive blood transfusion?
(A) Decreased serum fibrinogen concentration
(B) Decreased serum ionized calcium concentration
(C) Dilutional thrombocytopenia
(D) Disseminated intravascular coagulation
(E) Hypothermia

Which of the following is the most likely cause of the increased incidence of right ventricular failure in patients with morbid obesity?
(A) Chronic hypoxia
(B) Chronic silent pulmonary aspiration
(C) Chronic silent subendocardial ischemia
(D) Decreased vital capacity
(E) Increased pulmonary blood flow

Which of the following statements concerning the pharmacokinetics of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants is true?
(A) Drugs with a longer duration of action depend on the liver for excretion
(B) Drugs with a shorter duration of action depend primarily on redistribution for recovery
(C) Onset of action is independent of dose
(D) Recovery rate parallels the decrease in plasma relaxant concentration
(E) The shorter the duration of action, the faster the onset

A patient develops urticaria and pruritus while receiving a blood transfusion in the PACU. Blood pressure and heart rate are unchanged from pretransfusion values. The most appropriate action is administration of
(A) diphenhydramine
(B) epinephrine
(C) furosemide
(D) hydrocortisone
(E) mannitol

During direct intra-arterial measurement of blood pressure
(A) the mean arterial pressure will be unaffected by small air bubbles in the system
(B) an underdamped system will overestimate the mean arterial pressure
(C) an underdamped system will overestimate the diastolic pressure
(D) long tubing from the catheter to the transducer will tend to decrease resonance in the system
(E) calibration of the transducer by opening a stopcock to air at the sternal angle will overestimate the mean
arterial pressure

An ECG shows ventricular tachycardia in a patient with a heart rate of 160 bpm and a blood pressure of 90/60 mmHg. The best initial therapeutic maneuver prior to cardioversion is
(A) carotid sinus massage
(B) intravenous administration of bretylium
(C) intravenous administration of lidocaine
(D) intravenous administration of propranolol
(E) precordial "thump"

Optimal positioning of a left-sided double-lumen endobronchial tube is easier than positioning of a right-sided endobronchial tube because the
(A) angle between the trachea and bronchus is wider on the left
(B) diameter of the left mainstem bronchus is larger
(C) diameter of the left upper lobe bronchus is larger
(D) distance between the left upper lobe bronchus and the carina is greater
(E) left mainstem bronchus is more rigid

A patient who had liver transplantation two years ago now requires general anesthesia for ENT surgery. Minimal rejection has occurred on a regimen of cyclosporine and prednisone. Which of the following is most likely?
(A) Hypoalbuminemia
(B) Hypocalcemia
(C) Episodic hypoglycemia
(D) Increased serum creatinine concentration
(E) Prolonged prothrombin time

Which of the following phenomena is primarily responsible for the decrease in core body temperature that commonly occurs during the first hour of general anesthesia?
(A) Convective heat loss from cutaneous vasodilation
(B) Decreased heat production
(C) Evaporative heat loss during skin preparation
(D) Heat loss from the respiratory tract
(E) Redistribution of core body heat to the periphery

You are called to a witnessed cardiac arrest where cardiopulmonary resuscitation is being performed. After successful intubation, arterial blood gas values are Pa02 86 mmHg, PaC02 63 mmHg, and pH 7.25 at an FlO, of 1.0. The most appropriate management at this time is to
(A) repeat arterial blood gas analysis using a new specimen
(B) administer sodium bicarbonate
(C) administer fluid challenge with 500 ml of normal saline solution
(D) hyperventilate the patient
(E) add positive end-expiratory pressure

Which of the following is the most likely cause of dyspnea during spinal anesthesia to a T3 sensory level?
(A) Decreased abdominal muscle tone
(B) Decreased afferent input from the thoracic wall
(C) Increased dead space ventilation
(D) Increased intrapulmonary shunting
(E) Partial diaphragmatic paralysis

Halothane
(A) has no effect on reflex hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction
(B) protects the myocardium from beta-adrenergic stimulation
(C) has a direct, negative chronotropic effect on the sinoatrial node
(D) metabolites decrease renal concentrating ability
(E) is unsafe for use with epinephrine-containing local anesthetics

A patient is scheduled for amputation of the third metatarsal. A tourniquet will not be used during the procedure. The most effective anesthesia will be provided by block of which of the following nerves?
(A) Femoral
(B) Common peroneal and tibial
(C) Sural and deep peroneal
(D) Sural and tibial
(E) Tibial, saphenous, and deep peroneal

In a 5-kg boy with Treacher Collins syndrome who is to undergo cleft palate repair, endotracheal intubation is best accomplished with
(A) awake nasal intubation after topical anesthesia
(B) halothane anesthesia with spontaneous ventilation
(C) light isoflurane anesthesia and a muscle relaxant
(D) thiopental and succinylcholine sequence intravenously
(E) nasal intubation after administration of ketamine intramuscularly

In the majority of cases, fetal heart rate decelerations in a variable pattern are associated with
(A) decreased uteroplacental perfusion
(B) fetal head compression during contractions
(C) umbilical cord compression
(D) low Apgar scores at birth
(E) low neurobehavioral scores eight hours post partum

A 75-year-old woman with significant carotid artery stenosis is scheduled for general anesthesia for repair of a fractured hip. Which of the following is the greatest disadvantage of using propofol as an induction agent in this patient?
(A) Decreased arterial blood pressure
(B) Pain during intravenous injection
(C) Prolonged apnea after induction
(D) Prolonged awakening
(E) Prolonged elimination half-life

The last muscle to be affected by an interscalene brachial plexus block is the
(A) brachialis
(B) brachioradialis
(C) biceps
(D) flexor carpi radialis
(E) interosseous

Which of the following will result in the largest change in oxygen content?
(A) Increased hemoglobin (Hgb) concentration from 10 to 15 g/dl
(B) Increased Pa02 from 40 to 50 mmHg (Hgb 15 g/dl)
(C) Increased PaO- from 60 to 70 mmHg (Hgb 15 g/dl)
(D) Increased P50 of Hgb from 27 to 37 mmHg (Hgb 15 g/dl)
(E) Increased pH from 7.20 to 7.40

A patient who has severe pain from unresectable cancer of the base of the tongue is referred for a neurolytic block. A block of which of the following will be effective?
(A) Gasserian ganglion
(B) Glossopharyngeal nerve
(C) Hypoglossal nerve
(D) Mandibular nerve
(E) Vagus nerve

Preoperative administration of an alpha-adrcnergic blocker for 10 days to patients with pheochromocytoma will decrease
(A) episodic tachycardia
(B) hyperglycemia
(C) hypovolemia
(D) nasal stuffiness
(E) postural hypotension

Which of the following statements best describes the decrease in cerebral metabolic rate that occurs with administration of volatile anesthetics?
(A) It is independent of anesthetic dose
(B) It is maximal when the EEG is isoelectric
(C) It is more profound with halothane than isoflurane at equipotent doses
(D) It is not affected by enflurane-induced EEG hyperactivity
(E) It parallels changes in cerebral blood flow at mean arterial pressures of 50 to 150 mmHg

Compared with the demand-flow intermittent mandatory ventilation (IMV) system, the continuous-flow IMV system has which of the following characteristics?
(A) It cannot be used with positive end-expiratory pressure
(B) It permits monitoring of exhaled tidal volume
(C) It decreases waste of medical gases
(D) It decreases the work of breathing
(E) It synchronizes mechanical and spontaneous breaths

Which of the following results in the greatest increase in right-to-left shunting in an infant with cyanotic heart disease?
(A) Decreased pulmonary vascular resistance
(B) Decreased systemic vascular resistance
(C) Hemodilution
(D) Increased heart rate
(E) Myocardial depression

An apneic adult is receiving an oxygen flow of 4 L/min through a rigid bronchoscope. After five minutes of apnea, which of the following findings is most likely?
(A) A decrease in cardiac output
(B) A decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance
(C) A decrease in SpO, from 99% to 89%
(D) An increase in PaCC*2 of 18 mmHg
(E) Serum bicarbonate concentration of 30 mEq/L

Which of the following statements concerning the ventilatory effects of inhalational anesthesia is true?
(A) Assisted ventilation is not an effective technique to achieve normocarbia
(B) Surgical stimulation does not affect ventilation
(C) Combined doses of nitrous oxide and isoflurane depress ventilation the same as an equipotent dose of isoflurane alone
(D) The ventilatory response to increasing carbon dioxide concentration is normal
(E) The ventilatory response to hypoxemia is preserved

Which of the following fluids will restore circulating blood volume with the smallest infused volume?
(A) Albumin 25%
(B) Dextrose 5% in saline solution 0.45%
(C) Hydroxyethyl starch 6%
(D) Lactated Ringer's solution
(E) Type-specific whole blood

A 50-year-old woman notes loss of sensation in the medial lower leg 24 hours after vaginal hysterectomy in the lithotomy position. Which of the following nerves is most likely to be injured?
(A) Lateral femoral cutaneous
(B) Obturator
(C) Peroneal
(D) Saphenous
(E) Tibial

Twenty minutes after an axillary block, the patient reports feeling over the "back of the hand." Examination shows normal sensation over the lateral aspect of the dorsum of the hand and the dorsal base of the thumb and index finger. Supplementary anesthesia of this area can be provided by blocking which of the following nerves?
(A) Ulnar
(B) Musculocutaneous
(C) Median
(D) Radial
(E) Intercostobrachial

A 45-year-old woman with mitral stenosis is scheduled for elective mitral valve replacement. Two minutes after tracheal intubation, she develops atrial fibrillation with a ventricular response rate of 150 bpm and a decrease in blood pressure to 75/45 mmHg. Which of the following is the most appropriate first step in management?
(A) Increasing the concentration of enflurane
(B) Increasing the infusion rate of lactated Ringer's solution
(C) Intravenous administration of digoxin
(D) Intravenous administration of propranolol
(E) Electrical cardioversion

A 35-year-old woman undergoes a one-hour abdominal liposuction procedure under general anesthesia. During the procedure, 2000 ml of crystalloid is administered and 800 ml of fatty tissue is extracted. Thirty minutes postoperatively, blood pressure is 75/40 mmHg and heart rate is 100 bpm; Sp02 is 94% on room air. Which of the following is the most likely cause of these findings?
(A) Acute systemic vasodilation
(B) Circulating free fatty acids
(C) Hypocalcemia
(D) Inadequate intravascular volume replacement
(E) Venous fat embolism

After termination of cardiopulmonary bypass, a patient who is chronically digitalized receives digoxin 0.5 mg in error. An ECG shows sinus bradycardia with intermittent sinus arrest; blood pressure is 90/60 mmHg. Which of the following drugs is contraiindicated in this patient?
(A) Atropine
(B) Calcium chloride
(C) Ephedrine
(D) Magnesium sulfate
(E) Phenylephrine

During protamine administration following separation from cardiopulmonary bypass, blood pressure decreases from 100/70 to 60/30 mmHg and peak inspiratory pressure increases from 26 to 60 cmH:0. The most appropriate next step in management is administration of
(A) diphenhydramine
(B) dopamine
(C) epinephrine
(D) methylprednisolone
(E) terbutaline

A 90-kg, 59-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is undergoing laparotomy. Mechanical ventilation is being carried out with a fresh gas flow of 2 L/min at a rate of 16/min and tidal volume of 900 ml; I:E ratio is 1:2.5. PaC02 remains greater than 50 mmHg. Preoperative PaCO, was normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
(A) Adding 10 cmH20 of positive end-expiratory pressure
(B) Converting to spontaneous ventilation
(C) Decreasing inspiratory flow rate
(D) Increasing exhalation time
(E) Increasing fresh gas flow

Which of the following statements concerning the choice of nitroprusside or nitroglycerin to induce deliberate hypotension is true?
(A) Nitroglycerin is more potent
(B) Nitroglycerin produces hypotension by acting on both arterial and venous capacitance vessels
(C) Nitroprusside produces less rebound hypertension on discontinuation
(D) The toxic effects of nitroprusside are independent of dose
(E) The therapeutic effects of nitroprusside may persist on discontinuation

A 56-year-old woman with pulmonary Fibrosis is scheduled for pneumonectomy. Which of the following parameters best predicts potential postoperative functional impairment?
(A) Exercise tolerance
(B) Flow-volume loop
(C) Resting arterial blood gas values
(D) Unilateral pulmonary artery occlusion pressure
(E) Vital capacity and FEV,

A 30-year-old woman undergoes thyroidectomy under general endotracheal anesthesia. Immediately after extubation while breathing spontaneously, she has laryngospasm that resolves after 60 seconds of continuous positive airway pressure applied by face mask. In the PACU, she develops shortness of breath, tachypnea, hypoxemia, and rales. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
(A) Gastric acid aspiration
(B) Myocardial infarction
(C) Pulmonary edema
(D) Pulmonary embolism
(E) Vocal cord paralysis

A child undergoing general anesthesia is breathing spontaneously using the Jackson-Rees modification of the Ayres T-piece. Respiratory rate is 20/min and tidal volume is 75 ml. What is the minimum fresh gas flow required to prevent rebreathing?
(A) 750 ml/min
(B) 1500 ml/min
(C) 2250 ml/min
(D) 4500 ml/min
(E) 6000 ml/min

A 43-year-old man has been hoarse for two weeks since undergoing anterior cervical fusion at C7-8 for treatment of a herniated disk. Laryngoscopy shows paralysis of the right vocal cord. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Damage to the glossopharyngeal nerve during surgery
(B) Damage to the superior laryngeal nerve during surgery
(C) Nerve root compression by the herniated disk
(D) Stretching of the recurrent laryngeal nerve during surgery
(E) Trauma to the vocal cords during intubation

A patient who is paraplegic secondary to spinal cord transection at T3 develops bradycardia and facial flushing during a nephrectomy under general anesthesia with nitrous oxide, fentanyl, and atracurium. The most likely cause of this response is
(A) release of histamine
(B) stimulation of the carotid sinus
(C) release of prostaglandins
(D) vagal response to peritoneal traction
(E) release of epinephrine

A 65-year-old man has a history of alcohol abuse. Which of the following preoperative serum concentrations would provide the best assessment of synthetic hepatic function?
(A) Albumin
(B) Alkaline phosphatase (0 Bilirubin
(D) Globulin
(E) Transaminases

The primary mechanism for respiratory arrest following a spinal anesthetic to T2 is
(A) block of carotid chemoreceptors
(B) direct effect of local anesthetic on the medulla
(C) ischemia of respiratory centers in the medulla
(D) paralysis of the diaphragm by neural block
(E) paralysis of intercostal muscles

Which of the following laboratory studies is the best indicator of reversal of the effects of warfarin?
(A) Activated clotting time
(B) Activated partial thromboplastin time
(C) Bleeding time
(D) Plasma fibrinogen concentration
(E) Prothrombin time

Which of the following is a sign of cyanide toxicity during nitroprusside therapy?
(A) Decreased Sp02
(B) Increased PaCO,
(C) Increased arteriovenous oxygen tension difference
(D) Increased mixed venous pH
(E) Increased mixed venous PO,

A woman at 39 weeks' gestation has been in labor for 12 hours. She has had nausea and vomiting for the past eight hours. Maternal arterial blood gas values are PaOz 85 mmHg, PaC02 31 mmHg, and pH 7.50. Which of the following is the most likely cause of fetal distress occurring at this time?
(A) Hypocarbia-induced placental ischemia
(B) Impaired fetal oxyhemoglobin dissociation
(C) Shift to the left of the maternal oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve
(D) Maternal hypovolemia
(E) Maternal hypoxemia

During induction of anesthesia, a patient is breathing isoflurane from a semiclosed circle absorber system. The temperature-compensated vaporizer is set to deliver isoflurane 1.5%. Which of the following will result in the lowest inspired concentration of isoflurane?
(A) Doubling the length of circle system hoses
(B) Decreasing the barometric pressure
(C) Changing from rubber to plastic breathing hoses
(D) Decreasing fresh gas flow
(E) Exhaustion of the soda lime

An air/oxygen blender with E-size cylinders is supplying gas to a Mapleson D circuit being used to ventilate a neonate during transport. The air tank is full (psi= 1900/625 L) and flow is 4 L/min. The oxygen tank flow is 5 L/min and the pressure gauge indicates 500 psi. If the flow rates remain unchanged, which of the following statements is correct?
(A) The air tank will be empty in 90 minutes
(B) The oxygen tank will be empty in 30 minutes
(C) The concentration of oxygen in the circuit is 60%
(D) The oxygen tank will fill with air when the pressure gauge falls below 50 psi
(E) The volume of oxygen remaining can be determined only by weighing the tank

In the absence of coronary artery disease, isoflurane-induced vasodilation and tachycardia are beneficial hemodynamic goals for which of the following cardiac diseases?
(A) Aortic regurgitation
(B) Aortic stenosis
(C) Asymmetric septal hypertrophy (IHSS)
(D) Mitral stenosis
(E) Pulmonary regurgitation

Which of the following statements concerning the cerebral effects of barbiturates is true?
(A) Barbiturate coma produces greater cerebral protection than hypothermia to 17 C
(B) Barbiturate-induced reduction in cerebral blood flow is greater at normocarbia than at hypocarbia
(C) Barbiturates decrease the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen by decreasing cerebral blood flow
(D) Somatosensory evoked potentials and the EEG are equally sensitive to suppression by barbiturates
(E) When administered in doses sufficient to produce an isoelectric EEG, barbiturates decrease the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen by 50%

Which of the following will occur if the top of the oxygen flowmeter is cracked and leaking during anesthesia with nitrous oxide and oxygen?
(A) The back-pressure check valve will protect against a hypoxic gas mixture
(B) The fail-safe mechanism will protect against a hypoxic gas mixture
(C) The inspired oxygen concentration will be less than that set by the flowmeters
(D) The leak will be detected if the circle is pressurized prior to use
(E) The rotameter will accurately reflect the fresh gas flow to the patient

A 54-year-old man is scheduled for open reduction of a fracture sustained when he jumped from a burning building. The carboxyhemoglobin concentration is 25%. Which of the following is the most reliable indicator of adequate oxygenation during general anesthesia?
(A) Pa02 of 300 mmHg
(B) pH of 7.38 with a PaC02 of 41 mmHg
(C) Mixed venous P02 of 45 mmHg
(D) Oxyhemoglobin saturation of 100% measured by co-oximeter
(E) Sp02 of 100% measured by pulse oximeter

During anesthesia using the Bain circuit
(A) PaC02 is independent of minute volume if fresh gas flow is greater than 17 ml/kg
(B) PaC02 is independent of fresh gas flow if minute volume is greater than 100 ml/kg
(C) PaC02 may be normal in the presence of rebreathing
(D) carbon dioxide removal is more efficient during spontaneous ventilation than during controlled ventilation
(E) less body heat is lost than with a circle system

In a patient with asthma, which of the following drugs used to treat supraventricular tachycardia is LEAST likely to induce bronchospasm?
(A) Adenosine
(B) Edrophonium
(C) Esmolol
(D) Propranolol
(E) Verapamil

Which of the following is LEAST likely to decrease myocardial oxygen supply?
(A) Administration of enflurane
(B) Epidural anesthesia to a sensory level of T6
(C) Increased pulmonary artery occlusion pressure
(D) Hypocarbia (PaCO, 25 mmHg)
(E) Metabolic acidosis (pH 7.20)

Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation is LEAST likely to be effective in which of the following pain syndromes?
(A) Acute postoperative pain
(B) Chronic pancreatitis
(C) Myofascial syndrome
(D) Phantom limb pain
(E) Reflex sympathetic dystrophy

A 4-month-old child undergoing a craniectomy for craniosynostosis is anesthetized with nitrous oxide and halothane. Suddenly the systolic blood pressure decreases from 75 to 30 mmHg, and the PETCO, decreases from 35 to 6 mmHg. Which of the following maneuvers is LEAST likely to have a beneficial effect?
(A) Administration of a fluid bolus
(B) Administration of a vasopressor
(C) Application of positive end-expiratory pressure
(D) Discontinuation of nitrous oxide
(E) Flooding the surgical wound with saline solution

Which of the following factors is LEAST likely to affect serum ionized calcium concentration following blood transfusion?
(A) Age of blood transfused
(B) Amount of blood transfused
(C) Body temperature
(D) Serum pH
(E) Rate of transfusion

In a patient who is breathing spontaneously, the work of breathing increases with each of the following EXCEPT
(A) decreased compliance
(B) decreased vital capacity
(C) increased carbon dioxide production
(D) increased respiratory rate
(E) increased dead space

The sudden onset of pulmonary edema can be caused by each of the following EXCEPT
(A) rapid re-expansion of the lungs following pneumothorax
(B) upper airway obstruction
(C) oxygen toxicity
(D) rupture of mitral papillary muscle
(E) severe preeclampsia

Trimethaphan causes each of the following EXCEPT
(A) cerebral vasodilation
(B) urinary retention
(C) pupillary cycloplegia
(D) histamine release
(E) potentiation of succinylcholine block

Each of the following is a complication of stellate ganglion block EXCEPT
(A) brachial plexus block
(B) diplopia
(C) local anesthetic-induced seizure
(D) recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy
(E) subarachnoid block

A celiac plexus block provides effective relief of pain associated with primary cancers at each of the following locations EXCEPT the
(A) adrenal gland
(B) liver
(C) pancreas
(D) sigmoid colon
(E) stomach

Intraoperatively, the occurrence of prominent "a" waves on the central venous pressure waveform can be explained by each of the following EXCEPT
(A) acute right ventricular failure
(B) atrial flutter
(C) complete heart block
(D) onset of junctional tachycardia
(E) ventricular pacing

A 6-year-old child with severe cerebral palsy is scheduled for general anesthesia. He is at increased risk for each of the following EXCEPT
(A) gastroesophageal reflux
(B) hypersensitivity to central nervous system depressants
(C) poor function of laryngeal reflexes
(D) postoperative pulmonary complications
(E) succinylcholine-induced hyperkalemia

Each of the following is a characteristic of prostaglandin E, (alprostadil) pharmacology in an infant EXCEPT:
(A) It is effective in the treatment of large left-to-right shunts
(B) It is a cause of apnea
(C) It is a potent vasodilator
(D) It prevents closure of the ductus arteriosus
(E) It is metabolized rapidly

Normal pregnancy is associated with a decrease in each of the following EXCEPT
(A) expiratory reserve volume
(B) FEV,/FVC ratio
(C) functional residual capacity
(D) thoracic compliance
(E) vital capacity

Each of the following can produce adequate analgesia for the first stage of labor EXCEPT
(A) subarachnoid morphine
(B) epidural bupivacaine
(C) pudendal block with lidocaine
(D) paracervical block with lidocaine
(E) lumbar sympathetic block with lidocaine

The newborn infant of an 18-year-old heroin addict has an initial Apgar score of 1. After intubation of the trachea and ventilation with 100% oxygen, the Apgar score is 3 at five minutes. Appropriate management at this time would include administration of each of the following EXCEPT
(A) dextrose 10%
(B) epinephrine
(C) naloxone
(D) normal saline solution
(E) sodium bicarbonate

A patient receives 1.5% bupivacaine 40 ml and epinephrine 1:200,000 for axillary brachial plexus block for reduction of a forearm fracture. The tourniquet is inflated to 300 mmHg; 45 minutes later, the patient has pain that radiates to the posteromedial elbow. Which of the following nerves is NOT adequately blocked?
(A) Intercostobrachial
(B) Median
(C) Musculocutaneous
(D) Ulnar
(E) Radial
