
During axillary block of the brachial plexus, which nerve is most likely to be encountered if the needle is inserted through the posterior wall of the artery?
(A) Intercostobrachial
(B) Median
(C) Musculocutaneous
(D) Radial
(E) Ulnar

A 24-year-old man is undergoing induction of general anesthesia prior to appendectomy. During laryngoscopy, he regurgitates a large amount of bilious material. An endotracheal tube is inserted; aspiration shows bile-stained fluid. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
(A) Infusion of a loading dose of aminophylline
(B) Intravenous administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics
(C) Lavage of the tracheobronchial tree with saline solution
(D) Radiograph of the chest
(E) Proceeding with the operation

A 75-kg, 45-year-old patient with quadriplegia at the level of C6 is scheduled for elective cholecystectomy. Pulmonary function tests show an FVC of 2.4 L and an FEV, of 1.2 L. Which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion based on these findings?
(A) Intercostal muscle function is normal
(B) SpO, will be 80% or less while breathing room air
(C) Total lung capacity is normal
(D) The patient has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(E) These findings are expected in this patient

Two days after total abdominal hysterectomy, a 54-year-old woman develops lethargy followed by seizures and coma. Laboratory studies show a serum sodium concentration of 108 mEq/L and serum osmolality of 225 mOsm/kg. The most appropriate next step in management is administration of which of the following?
(A) Desmopressin
(B) Furosemide only
(C) Saline solution 0.9% only
(D) Furosemide and saline solution 0.9%
(E) Furosemide and saline solution 3%

Prolonged respiratory depression following administration of morphine is more likely in patients with chronic renal faillure than in patients with normal kidney function because of
(A) decreased biotransformation
(B) decreased protein binding
(C) decreased volume of distribution
(D) delayed excretion of morphine metabolites
(E) the effect of acidosis on morphine ionization

An oxygen-driven anesthesia ventilator with a bellows that ascends during exhalation develops a small hole in the bellows. Which of the following is the most likely effect?
(A) Alveolar hyperinflation
(B) Decreased inspiratory flow rate
(C) Decreased inspired oxygen concentration
(D) Increased concentration of inhalational agent
(E) Rebreathing of exhaled gases

Compared with thiopental, etomidate causes
(A) greater histamine release
(B) greater myocardial depression
(C) greater myoclonic activity
(D) increased seizure threshold
(E) less nausea

Which of the following is the correct sequence of anatomic structures encountered when using a paramedian approach for lumbar spinal anesthesia?
(A) Ligamentum flavum - dura mater - arachnoid mater
(B) Interspinous ligament — ligamentum flavum - dura mater - arachnoid mater
(C) Posterior longitudinal ligament — ligamentum flavum — dura mater — arachnoid mater
(D) Anterior longitudinal ligament - ligamentum flavum — dura mater — arachnoid mater
(E) Ligamentum flavum - dura mater - pia mater - arachnoid mater

When evaluating a screening test, which of the following is the most appropriate term for the proportion of patients with a disease who have a positive test result?
(A) Accuracy
(B) Incidence
(C) Selectivity
(D) Sensitivity
(E) Specificity

During carotid endarterectomy, which of the following EEG patterns is most suggestive of cerebral ischemia?
(A) Ipsilateral spike-and-wave activity
(B) Bilateral change from beta to alpha rhythm
(C) Ipsilateral increase in beta activity
(D) Ipsilateral decrease in the spectral edge frequency from 10 to 4 Hz
(E) Bilateral increase in the spectral edge frequency from 8 to 15 Hz

Which of the following results in decreased mixed venous oxygen saturation?
(A) Cardiogenic shock
(B) Decreased metabolic rate
(C) Increased cardiac output
(D) Left-to-right intracardiac shunt
(E) Pulmonary vasodilation

Which of the following is the most likely cause of the rapid onset of local anesthesia when sodium bicarbonate is added to lidocaine?
(A) Decreased extracellular calcium ion concentration
(B) Increased extracellular pH
(C) Increased intracellular pH
(D) Increased ionized lidocaine diffusion
(E) Increased nonionized lidocaine concentration

A patient with uremia is scheduled for emergency surgery. Bleeding time is 18 minutes. The most appropriate initial treatment is
(A) cryoprecipitate
(B) desmopressin
(C) fresh frozen plasma
(D) platelets
(E) vitamin K

A 70-year-old man with mild hypertension and aortoiliac occlusive disease is undergoing aortofemoral bypass grafting. Which of the following interventions is most effective in maintaining renal perfusion during infrarenal aortic clamping?
(A) Infusion of dopamine at 2 ag/kg/min
(B) Infusion of sodium nitroprusside
(C) Intravenous administration of furosemide
(D) Intravenous administration of mannitol
(E) Volume loading with crystalloid

Which of the following statements best describes "screening" when blood is ordered for type and screen?
(A) Red blood cells are mixed with serum containing known antigens
(B) Red blood cells are mixed with serum from the pool of potential donors
(C) Red blood cells are mixed with red blood cells from the pool of potential donors
(D) Serum is mixed with red blood cells that contain known antigens
(E) Serum is mixed with red blood cells from the pool of potential donors

A 20-year-old man with a history of substance abuse is undergoing preoperative evaluation. Which of the following findings suggests current use of cocaine?
(A) Absence of deep tendon reflexes
(B) Bradycardia
(C) Hypertension
(D) Hypothermia
(E) Pinpoint pupils

Which of the following is the most appropriate treatment of methemoglobinemia prior to emergency surgery?
(A) Hydroxocobalamin
(B) Methylene blue
(C) Oxygen by face mask
(D) Packed red blood cells
(E) Thiosulfate

When using a Venturi face mask with a reservoir bag
(A) a known constant Fl02 is delivered
(B) the reservoir bag ensures predictable Fl02 while conserving fresh gas flow
(C) low fresh gas flows will not decrease Fl02
(D) the system prevents hypocarbia during tachypnea
(E) the system increases anatomic dead space

Following transfusion of packed red blood cells during general anesthesia, the patient's blood pressure decreases, heart rate and temperature increase, and hemoglobinuria and diffuse oozing are observed. Which of the following is the most appropriate first step in management?
(A) Administration of hydrocortisone
(B) Administration of fresh frozen plasma
(C) Administration of epsilon-aminocaproic acid
(D) Rapid infusion of crystalloid
(E) Transfusion of platelet concentrates

Compared with general anesthesia, epidural anesthesia for hip arthroplasty is associated with
(A) decreased incidence of perioperative myocardial ischemia
(B) decreased intraoperative blood loss
(C) decreased risk for acute renal failure
(D) increased risk for stress-induced hyperglycemia
(E) increased thromboembolic complications

Which of the following abnormalities in serum is most likely to result from intraoperative discontinuation of parenteral hyperalimentation?
(A) Hypocalcemia
(B) Hypocarbia
(C) Hypoglycemia
(D) Hypokalemia
(E) Hyponatremia

An unvaccinated health care worker is stuck by a needle contaminated with blood from an HBsAg-positive patient. Which of the following statements concerning this situation is true?
(A) The risk for development of HIV infection is greater than the risk for development of hepatitis
(B) Hepatitis immune globulin is indicated if the health care worker is HBcAg positive
(C) Hepatitis B vaccine should be administered
(D) Hepatitis immune globulin will protect equally against hepatitis B and hepatitis C (non-A, non-B)
(E) Hepatitis B vaccine carries a risk for transmission of HIV

A 19-year-old man is undergoing inguinal herniorrhaphy. He is anesthetized with a spinal block supplemented with midazolam and fentanyl. During the procedure, he has sudden loss of consciousness, profound hypotension, and bradycardia; systolic pressure is 40 mmHg and heart rate is 30 bpm. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation is started. The most appropriate next step is administration of
(A) atropine
(B) ephedrine
(C) epinephrine
(D) flumazenil
(E) naloxone

A 60-kg, 38-year-old woman undergoes laparoscopic tubal ligation. Paralysis is maintained for one hour with infusion of succinylcholine at a rate of 10 mg/min. At the end of the procedure, respirations are shallow and tetanic fade is noted on neuromuscular stimulation. In addition to continued mechanical ventilation, which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
(A) Observe until the patient recovers spontaneously
(B) Monitor until PetC02 reaches 50 mmHg
(C) Determine dibucaine number
(D) Administer fresh frozen plasma
(E) Administer glycopyrrolate and neostigmine

A patient has sudden cardiopulmonary arrest five minutes after retrobulbar block with 0.75% bupivacaine 2 ml with hyaluronidase for ophthalmologic surgery. No premonitory changes were noted on the pulse oximeter. The most likely cause is
(A) allergic reaction to hyaluronidase
(B) direct cardiac toxicity
(C) oculocardiac reflex
(D) intravenous injection of local anesthetic
(E) subarachnoid injection of local anesthetic

A pulmonary artery catheter is placed in an awake patient breathing room air. Typical right ventricular and pulmonary artery pressure tracings are obtained. With the catheter balloon inflated, blood drawn from the distal port has a Pa02 of 100 mmHg, while a simultaneous radial artery sample has a Pa02 of 90 mmHg. These data indicate that the
(A) shunt fraction is greater than 10%
(B) catheter is in the wedge position
(C) catheter has entered a pulmonary vein
(D) cardiac output is abnormally high
(E) oxygen electrode is malfunctioning

A 3-day-old infant is comatose 18 hours after surgical correction of transposition of the great vessels. Tracheal suction- ing produces only a tachycardic response. Anesthesia included midazolam 0.5 mg/kg, fentanyl 60 u,g/kg, and pancuronium 0.3 mg/kg. Which of the following is the most appropriate first step in evaluation of this infant?
(A) Administration of flumazenil
(B) Administration of naloxone
(C) Train-of-four assessment
(D) CT scan of the head
(E) EEG

During a cardiac arrest with effective chest compression and positive-pressure ventilation, 50 mEq of sodium bicarbon- ate is administered. Which of the following is the most likely result?
(A) Decreased mixed venous pH
(B) Decreased SpG2
(C) Increased PetC02
(D) Increased plasma lactate concentration
(E) Increased serum potassium concentration

A newly developed inhalational anesthetic has a blood-gas partition coefficient of 0.2. Which of the following statements best describes this drug compared with isoflurane?
(A) MAC is lower
(B) The difference between Fa and Fl during maintenance of anesthesia is greater
(C) Time to emergence is shorter
(D) Rapid induction requires greater overpressure
(E) Equilibrium in a circle system with the same flow of fresh gas is slower

Which of the following statements concerning isolated mitral stenosis is true?
(A) Afterload reduction increases cardiac output
(B) Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure overestimates left ventricular filling pressure
(C) Pulmonary hypertension is irreversible
(D) Tachycardia decreases the mitral transvalvular gradient
(E) Thermodilution cardiac output measurements are unreliable

Which of the following drugs exerts a vasoconstrictor effect by blocking the reuptake of norepinephrine at the neuronal synapse?
(A) Cocaine
(B) Dopamine
(C) Ephedrine
(D) Metaraminol
(E) Phenylephrine

In a patient with hypovolemic shock, which of the following factors is the best measure of the overall balance between oxygen supply and demand?
(A) Arterial oxygen content
(B) PetO2
(C) Mixed venous oxygen saturation
(D) Pa02
(E) Transcutaneous oxygen tension

Which of the following neural functions demonstrates the highest segmental block after spinal anesthesia?
(A) Afferent sympathetic activity
(B) Proprioception
(C) Sharp pain perception
(D) Temperature sensation
(E) Touch sensation

A 45-year-old man with chronic liver failure is scheduled for liver transplantation. Which of the following preoperative findings is most likely?
(A) Hypoxemia
(B) Increased platelet count
(C) Increased systemic vascular resistance
(D) Increased serum factor VIII concentration
(E) Metabolic alkalosis

Which of the following is the most effective treatment of shivering following general anesthesia?
(A) Administration of droperidol
(B) Administration of morphine
(C) Administration of midazolam
(D) Administration of warm intravenous fluids
(E) Skin-surface warming

During open reduction of a tibial fracture, a tourniquet cuff is applied around the proximal thigh and inflated to 300 mmHg. Which of the following is most likely to prevent pain and hypertension caused by the tourniquet?
(A) Intravenous administration of fentanyl during subarachnoid block
(B) Lumbar sympathetic block
(C) Spinal anesthesia to a T6 sensory level
(D) Obturator nerve block
(E) General anesthesia

With respect to mechanical ventilation, which of the following statements concerning the portion of tidal volume known as compression volume is true?
(A) It is calculated by dividing the volume of gas delivered to the patient by the peak pressure
(B) It does not contribute to the volume of gas entering the patient
(C) It is not included in the volume measured by a spirometer on the inspiratory limb
(D) It decreases with the addition of a humidifier to the breathing circuit
(E) It decreases with the addition of one-way valves at the Y connector of the breathing circuit

A 2600-g neonate is to undergo surgical repair of a small gastroschisis. The infant is preoxygenated with 100% oxygen. Arterial hemoglobin desaturation is noted during laryngoscopy after a rapid-sequence induction. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) High fetal hemoglobin concentration
(B) High ratio of oxygen consumption to functional residual capacity
(C) Low functional residual capacity in milliliters per kilogram
(D) Poor thoracic compliance
(E) Patent ductus arteriosus

A waste-gas scavenger has an active disposal system. Which of the following safety features is necessary to prevent removal of excess gas from the breathing circuit?
(A) Positive-pressure relief mechanism
(B) Negative-pressure relief mechanism
(C) Low-volume scavenging reservoir
(D) High-volume scavenging reservoir
(E) Maximum vacuum flow rate of 5 L/min

Which of the following findings is most likely in a 3-year-old child who has a secundum-type atrial septal defect with a 2:1 left-to-right shunt?
(A) Pulmonary blood flow twice that of systemic blood flow
(B) Pulmonary vascular resistance twice normal
(C) Mean pulmonary artery pressure twice normal
(D) Right atrial pressure twice normal
(E) Hypoxemia while breathing room air

Pain and spasm due to injury of the deltoid muscle is most effectively relieved by
(A) axillary block
(B) cervical sympathetic block
(C) interscalene brachial plexus block
(D) paravertebral block at C4
(E) superficial cervical plexus block

The potency of an inhalational anesthetic correlates best with its
(A) vapor pressure
(B) blood/gas partition coefficient
(C) molar volume
(D) brain/gas partition coefficient
(E) oil/gas partition coefficient

Intraoperative heat loss in an unclothed, undraped patient is caused primarily by
(A) conduction to colder objects
(B) convective heat loss
(C) insensible perspiration
(D) radiant heat loss to the environment
(E) respiratory tract water loss

Which of the following statements concerning flumazenil is true?
(A) Hepatic clearance is low
(B) It binds irreversibly with the benzodiazepine receptor
(C) It causes hypertension and tachycardia
(D) It has a shorter duration of action than midazolam
(E) It reverses opioid-induced respiratory depression

During acute normovolemic hemodilution in an adult, which of the following compensatory mechanisms is most important in maintaining tissue oxygenation?
(A) Increased cardiac output
(B) Increased oxygen extraction
(C) Increased synthesis of erythropoietin
(D) Redistribution of regional blood flow
(E) Shift of the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve

A newborn is in respiratory distress. Examination shows a scaphoid abdomen, cyanosis while breathing oxygen by mask, and heart sounds in the right hemithorax. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
(A) Assisted ventilation with a bag and face mask
(B) Insertion of a chest tube on the left side
(C) Insertion of a nasogastric tube
(D) Tracheal intubation and assisted ventilation
(E) Tracheal intubation and expansion of the left lung

A 46-year-old man is scheduled for repair of an inguinal hernia. Six years ago, he had an episode of malignant hyperthermia during cholecystectomy. Which of the following is the most appropriate perioperative management?
(A) Administration of a regional anesthetic
(B) Administration of dantrolene orally for two days prior to surgery
(C) Avoidance of all inhalational anesthetics except isoflurane
(D) Avoidance of ester local anesthetics
(E) Flushing the anesthesia machine with oxygen 10 L/min for a minimum of 12 hours

A 64-year-old man with a large pancreatic tumor has severe abdominal pain that radiates to the low back. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Bilateral LI rhizotomy
(B) Dorsal column stimulation
(C) Hypogastric plexus block
(D) Neurolytic celiac plexus block
(E) Patient-controlled analgesia

Which of the following conditions is a contraindication to the use of succinylcholine?
(A) Burns of 50% body surface area occurring 12 hours ago
(B) Cirrhosis
(C) Myotonic dystrophy
(D) Seizure disorder
(E) Spinal cord transection within the past six hours

Forty-eight hours after thoracotomy, a patient's T6-7 epidural catheter is removed and the distal 2 cm is noted to be missing. The patient felt no pain during removal and neurologic examination shows no abnormalities. After informing the patient, which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
(A) Observation
(B) Culture of cerebrospinal fluid
(C) MRI of the thoracic spine
(D) Myelography
(E) Surgical removal of the catheter

A 63-year-old man with a history of congestive heart failure and left ventricular dilation is scheduled for carotid endarterectomy. During carotid cross-clamping, the surgeon requests that systolic blood pressure be increased from 100 to 160 mmHg. Compared with an identical patient with normal left ventricular size, what is the effect of this change in blood pressure on this patient's myocardial oxygen consumption?
(A) Equal decrease
(B) Greater decrease
(C) Lesser increase
(D) Equal increase
(E) Greater increase

A 55-year-old man requires intravenous lidocaine for multifocal premature ventricular contractions occurring in the first hour after a below-knee amputation. He has alcoholic cirrhosis, portal hypertension, and ascites. Which of the following correctly describes the appropriate modification of the usual loading bolus and maintenance infusion of lidocaine?
(A) Larger bolus, faster infusion
(B) Larger bolus, slower infusion
(C) Smaller bolus, faster infusion
(D) Smaller bolus, slower infusion
(E) No change necessary

A 65-year-old patient with compensated congestive heart failure undergoes resection of a large tumor of the temporal lobe. During the procedure, the brain is noted to protrude through the surgical incision. After increasing minute ventila- tion, which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
(A) Administration of dexamethasone
(B) Administration of furosemide
(C) Administration of mannitol
(D) Induction of barbiturate coma
(E) Induction of deliberate hypotension

A 72-year-old woman is somnolent one day after left carotid endarterectomy. She has smoked Vh packs of cigarettes daily for 50 years. Six weeks ago, she underwent right carotid endarterectomy. At this time, arterial blood gases while breathing room air are PO, 45 mmHg, PCO, 60 mmHg, and pH 7.30. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the increased PC02?
(A) Bilateral vocal cord paralysis
(B) Cerebral infarction
(C) Congestive heart failure
(D) Denervation of the carotid bodies
(E) Phrenic nerve injury

During attempted cannulation of the right internal jugular vein, the exploring needle goes lateral to the vein. Which of the following structures is most likely to be encountered?
(A) Carotid artery
(B) Vagus nerve
(C) Thoracic duct
(D) Phrenic nerve
(E) Long thoracic nerve

Which of the following provides the earliest indication of myocardial ischemia during general anesthesia?
(A) Cardiac index
(B) Mixed venous oxygen saturation
(C) Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure
(D) Regional ventricular wall motion
(E) ST-segment depression on ECG

A newborn infant is undergoing repair of gastroschisis. During closure of the abdominal wall, ventilatory pressures and central venous pressure increase markedly. The most appropriate management is to
(A) administer a bronchodilator
(B) decrease tidal volume and increase ventilatory rate
(C) increase the neuromuscular block
(D) increase the depth of anesthesia
(E) ask the surgeon to reopen the abdomen

Which of the following is most likely to result in oxygen desaturation in a patient with Eisenmenger's syndrome who is scheduled for cesarean delivery?
(A) Breathing room air
(B) Epidural administration of lidocaine
(C) Intravenous administration of ketamine
(D) Intravenous administration of ephedrine
(E) Mild hypocarbia

A 32-year-old woman is anesthetized for suboccipital craniotomy. During positioning, the capnograph shows an abrupt decrease in the slope of the expiratory upstroke. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Air embolism
(B) Incompetent expiratory valve
(C) Incomplete neuromuscular block
(D) Kinked endotracheal tube
(E) Tracheal extubation

Brain stem auditory evoked potentials are most likely to be absent during which of the following?
(A) Anesthesia with 1.5 MAC isoflurane
(B) Barbiturate coma
(C) Hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of 50 mmHg
(D) Surgical retraction of the temporal lobe
(E) Surgical traction on the pons

Which of the following is an effect of ritodrine?
(A) Anisocoria
(B) Hypocalcemia
(C) Hypoglycemia
(D) Hypokalemia
(E) Urinary retention

A patient is hyperventilated to a PaC02 of 20 mmHg. Which of the following physiologic parameters is most likely to be increased?
(A) Airway resistance
(B) Myocardial contractility
(C) Oxygen delivery to tissues
(D) Pulmonary vascular resistance
(E) Serum ionized calcium concentration

Which of the following is a respiratory effect of 1 MAC halothane?
(A) Decreased contribution of abdominal muscles to exhalation
(B) Decreased contribution of the chest wall to ventilation
(C) Decreased respiratory rate
(D) Decreased ratio of dead space to tidal volume
(E) Increased tidal volume

A patient has a seizure within seconds after receiving a retrobulbar injection of 0.5% bupivacaine with epinephrine 1:200,000. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Air embolism
(B) Oculocardiac reflex
(C) Ophthalmic artery injection
(D) Retrobulbar hemorrhage
(E) Subdural injection

An elderly man has an acute dissection of the descending thoracic aorta. Which of the following antihypertensive therapies is most likely to extend the dissection?
(A) Esmolol infusion
(B) Nitroglycerin infusion
(C) Nitroprusside infusion
(D) Nitroprusside infusion combined with a beta-adrenergic blocker
(E) Trimethaphan infusion

Which of the following best explains the decreased effect of hyperventilation on cerebral blood flow when PaCOz decreases below 20 mmHg?
(A) Maximal constriction of cerebral vessels
(B) Decreased cerebral perfusion pressure
(C) Decreased cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen
(D) Increased cardiac output
(E) Increased cerebrospinal fluid pressure

A 67-year-old man undergoes a perineal procedure under epidural anesthesia in the lithotomy position with extreme flexion of the thigh at the hip. No sedatives are used, and the surgery is uneventful. Forty-eight hours later, the patient cannot flex his left knee. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Epidural hematoma
(B) L5 nerve root injury
(C) Obturator nerve injury
(D) Peroneal nerve injury
(E) Sciatic nerve injury

An 86-kg, 67-year-old man is undergoing a second coronary artery bypass operation. Five minutes after administration of protamine, blood pressure is 69/40 mmHg, pulmonary artery pressure is 65/42 mmHg, and the cardiac output measured by thermodilution is 2.3 L/min. Which of the following is the most likely cause of these findings?
(A) Allergy to fish
(B) Increased plasma thromboxane concentration
(C) Increased plasma histamine concentration
(D) Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
(E) IgE antibodies to protamine

A newly developed volatile anesthetic has a MAC of 10% in oxygen for adults. Which of the following statements concerning this anesthetic is true?
(A) The expected MAC of this drug in combination with 60% nitrous oxide is 7.5%
(B) The dose of this drug required to anesthetize a patient with acute amphetamine intoxication is less than the dose required for a normal patient
(C) The potency of this drug is 25% of a drug with a MAC of 2.5%
(D) The dose of this drug required to suppress the hormonal response to surgical incision is less than the MAC value
(E) The MAC of this drug is decreased by metabolic alkalosis

A 70-kg, 50-year-old man is scheduled for muscle flap closure of a decubitus ulcer over the sacrum. He has been quadriplegic at the level of C6-7 for six years. Which of the following is most likely to result from subarachnoid anesthesia with tetracaine 10 mg for this procedure?
(A) Atrioventricular block
(B) Decreased risk for autonomic dysreflexia
(C) Impaired expiratory muscle function
(D) Impaired inspiratory muscle function
(E) Inadequate block of spastic movements

Compared with a person of normal weight, which of the following findings are most likely on pulmonary function testing of a patient with morbid obesity? (FVC, FEV/FVC FRC A-aDO2)?
(A) Decreased 	Normal 		Decreased 		Normal
(B) Decreased 	Normal 		Decreased 		Increased
(C) Decreased 	Normal 		Normal 			Increased
(D) Increased 	Decreased 	Normal 			Increased
(E) Increased 	Decreased 	Decreased 		Increased

During induction of general anesthesia in a patient with a supraglottic tumor, both intubation and subsequent ventilation via a face mask are impossible. A cricothyroidotomy is performed with a 16-gauge intravenous catheter. Which of the following statements is true?
(A) Application of pressures greater than 35 cmH20 to the catheter will increase the risk for pulmonary barotrauma
(B) PaCO, can be maintained at a normal level using a standard circle system attached to the catheter
(C) Pa02 greater than 100 mmHg can be maintained indefinitely using transtracheal jet ventilation with 100% oxygen through the catheter
(D) Emergency surgical tracheostomy would have improved the likelihood of survival
(E) The presence of this tumor contraindicates jet ventilation via cricothyroidotomy

Which of the following statements concerning naloxone is true?
(A) Elimination half-life is longer than that of the majority of mu-receptor opioids
(B) It does not cross the placenta
(C) It has mixed agonist-antagonist effects
(D) It increases the MAC of inhaled anesthetic drugs
(E) It relieves opioid-induced spasm of the sphincter of Oddi

A woman is in labor at 40 weeks' gestation and the fetus is in breech presentation. Which of the following will provide adequate uterine relaxation for vaginal delivery?
(A) Spinal anesthesia
(B) Epidural anesthesia
(C) Halothane anesthesia
(D) Pudendal nerve block
(E) Magnesium sulfate

Monitoring of a patient with a closed head injury shows the following pressures: Intracranial pressure 30 mmHg, Central venous pressure 5 mmHg, Mean arterial pressure 65 mmHg, Peak airway pressure 25 cmH,0. The cerebral perfusion pressure is
(A) 30 mmHg
(B) 35 mmHg
(C) 40 mmHg
(D) 60 mmHg
(E) 65 mmHg

Deliberate hypothermia and circulatory arrest is planned for clipping of a giant basilar artery aneurysm. Which of the following statements is true?
(A) Administration of a muscle relaxant slows the cooling process
(B) Anesthesia is not required if body temperature is below 31°C
(C) Decreasing body temperature below the level at which the EEG is isoelectric further decreases cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen
(D) Sinus bradycardia during cooling results from increased intracranial pressure
(E) T-wave inversion during cooling indicates myocardial ischemia

A 20-kg, 6-year-old boy is undergoing strabismus surgery under anesthesia with halothane, nitrous oxide, and oxygen. The heart rate suddenly decreases from 85 to 40 bpm. Which of the following is the most appropriate first step in management?
(A) Decrease the depth of anesthesia
(B) Increase the depth of anesthesia
(C) Hyperventilate the patient
(D) Administer atropine
(E) Stop the surgical procedure

A 70-kg patient is anesthetized for a craniotomy in the sitting position. Minute ventilation through a circle system is 15 L/min; PetC02 is 65 mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the increased PetC02?
(A) Inadequate flow of fresh gas
(B) Incompetent expiratory valve
(C) Intubation of the right mainstem bronchus
(D) Light anesthesia
(E) Venous air embolism

A 30-year-old woman is undergoing laparoscopic tubal ligation. Thirty minutes after induction of general anesthesia, arterial oxygen saturation has decreased to 89%. Arterial blood gases at an Fl02 of 1.0 are Pa02 63 mmHg and PaC02 40 mmHg; PetCO, is 32 mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Carbon dioxide embolus
(B) Endobronchial intubation
(C) Hypoventilation
(D) Inadvertent application of high levels of positive end-expiratory pressure
(E) Leak in the capnography sampling catheter

A sedative/hypnotic drug is administered prior to electroconvulsive therapy to do which of the following?
(A) Potentiate the effect of succinylcholine
(B) Provide amnesia for the electrical stimulus
(C) Decrease the current required to produce a grand mal seizure
(D) Increase seizure duration
(E) Control postictal sympathetic response

Which of the following statements best describes the decrease in functional residual capacity that accompanies the induction of general anesthesia?
(A) It does not change compliance
(B) It is greater with spontaneous ventilation than with controlled ventilation
(C) It is independent of body position
(D) It is not corrected by application of positive end-expiratory pressure
(E) It occurs within the first 10 minutes of anesthesia

Which of the following is a known effect of propofol?
(A) Decreased amplitude of somatosensory evoked potentials
(B) Induction of malignant hyperthermia
(C) Inhibition of cytochrome P450
(D) Initiation of porphyria
(E) Suppression of adrenocortical function

The most likely cause of bilateral fixed and dilated pupils after clipping of a basilar artery aneurysm is
(A) preoperative administration of atropine
(B) intraoperative infusion of trimethaphan
(C) naloxone antagonism of opioid
(D) persistent hypothermia
(E) brain stem ischemia

During laser excision of a vocal cord polyp, the tracheal tube ignites. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step?
(A) Continue ventilation with air
(B) Ensure patency of the endotracheal tube
(C) Extubate the trachea
(D) Flood the surgical field with saline solution
(E) Increase the concentration of nitrous oxide

A 68-year-old man has a permanent DVI pacemaker that has been functioning appropriately. Which of the following is most likely to cause conversion to VOO pacing?
(A) Electroconvulsive therapy
(B) Insertion of a pulmonary artery catheter
(C) Placement of a magnet over the pulse generator
(D) Use of electrocautery near the pacemaker
(E) Shivering

Which of the following statements concerning absorption of irrigation fluid during transurethral resection of the prostate is true?
(A) Hydrostatic pressure has minimal effect on the amount of fluid absorbed
(B) Typically 10 to 30 ml of fluid per minute are absorbed
(C) Use of iso-osmotic solutions decreases the risk for hyponatremia
(D) CNS complications are independent of the type of fluid used
(E) Spinal anesthesia to T6 will mask the symptoms of overhydration

After receiving excessive intraoperative blood replacement, a patient anesthetized with fentanyl, diazepam, and nitrous oxide develops acute pulmonary edema. The drug most likely to help him acutely is
(A) isoflurane
(B) nitroprusside
(C) digoxin
(D) nitroglycerin
(E) furosemide

With an interscalene brachial plexus block
(A) more local anesthetic drug is required than for axillary block
(B) the biceps and brachialis muscles are blocked last
(C) the intercostobrachial nerve is usually blocked
(D) the lateral antebrachial cutaneous nerve is usually spared
(E) the ulnar nerve is most likely to be spared

A 55-kg, 70-year-old woman with mild chronic renal failure is unresponsive 20 hours after an uneventful coronary artery bypass grafting procedure. Anesthetic drugs included fentanyl 3000 jug, diazepam 35 mg, and pancuronium 20 mg. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
(A) Administration of edrophonium
(B) Administration of flumazenil
(C) Administration of naloxone
(D) CT scan of the head
(E) Measurement of core body temperature

The portion of the infant airway with the smallest cross-sectional area occurs at the level of the
(A) cricoid cartilage
(B) false vocal cords
(C) thoracic inlet
(D) tonsillar pillars
(E) true vocal cords

Properly performed local anesthetic block of the celiac plexus
(A) requires that the needle tip be positioned anterior to the vertebral body of LI
(B) preserves efferent parasympathetic outflow
(C) produces urinary retention
(D) is not associated with hypotension
(E) produces truncal cutaneous hypesthesia

A healthy 24-year-old woman is undergoing knee arthroscopy with spinal anesthesia to a level of T4. Which of the following findings is LEAST likely?
(A) Decreased heart rate
(B) Decreased hepatic blood flow
(C) Decreased mean arterial pressure
(D) Decreased tidal volume
(E) Hyperperistalsis

Which of the following factors is the LEAST important determinant of postdural puncture headache?
(A) Age of the patient
(B) Gauge of the spinal needle
(C) Gender of the patient
(D) Pregnancy
(E) Time until ambulation

Which of the following factors is LEAST predictive of postoperative cardiac complications?
(A) Congestive heart failure
(B) Major vascular surgery
(C) Premature ventricular contractions
(D) Preoperative hypertension
(E) Recent myocardial infarction

In treating arterial hypertension in a patient with a head injury, the agent LEAST likely to increase intracranial pressure is
(A) hydralazine
(B) nitroprusside
(C) nitroglycerin
(D) trimethaphan
(E) halothane

Which of the following cardiovascular abnormalities is LEAST likely to be present in a patient with end-stage alcoholic cirrhosis?
(A) Decreased myocardial contractility
(B) High cardiac index
(C) High mixed venous oxygen saturation
(D) Increased peripheral vascular resistance
(E) Low blood viscosity

Static lung compliance is decreased by each of the following EXCEPT
(A) pulmonary emphysema
(B) congestive heart failure
(C) adult respiratory distress syndrome
(D) pulmonary fibrosis
(E) inhalational anesthesia

Each of the following would be expected after preoperative oral administration of clonidine EXCEPT
(A) bradycardia in the absence of surgical stimulation
(B) decreased requirement for inhalational anesthetics
(C) decreased requirement for opioid anesthetics
(D) decreased response to exogenous epinephrine
(E) sedation

Neostigmine administered intravenously without atropine can produce each of the following EXCEPT
(A) arousal
(B) bradycardia
(C) bronchoconstriction
(D) increased gastric motility
(E) increased urinary bladder tone

A programmable DVI pacemaker can be inhibited or inactivated by each of the following EXCEPT
(A) myopotentials from shivering
(B) succinylcholine-induced fasciculations
(C) the ventricular R wave
(D) the atrial P wave
(E) placement of a magnet over it

During one-lung ventilation, each of the following affects hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in the nonventilated lung EXCEPT
(A) application of continuous positive airway pressure to the nonventilated lung
(B) high alveolar PO, in the ventilated lung
(C) infusion of isoproterenol
(D) low mixed venous PO,
(E) pulmonary hypertension

Following blunt trauma to the chest, a patient has tachycardia, hypotension, and markedly distended neck veins. Each of the following is expected EXCEPT
(A) cardiac output of 2.1 L/min
(B) mixed venous oxygen saturation of 75%
(C) pulmonary artery occlusion pressure of 25 mmHg
(D) pulmonary artery diastolic pressure of 25 mmHg
(E) right atrial pressure of 25 mmHg

Hyperkalemia in response to the administration of an intubating dose of succinylcholine is associated with each of the following disorders EXCEPT
(A) poliomyelitis
(B) multiple sclerosis
(C) hemiplegia
(D) acute cervical cord transection
(E) familial periodic paralysis

Each of the following values is associated with acute tubular necrosis EXCEPT
(A) urine osmolality of 200 mOsm/kg
(B) urine sodium concentration of 15 mEq/L
(C) urine specific gravity of 1.009
(D) urine/serum osmolarity ratio of 1.2
(E) fractional excretion of sodium of 4%

A delay in surgery for 24 to 48 hours for preoperative stabilization and preparation is acceptable in each of the following neonatal conditions EXCEPT
(A) biliary atresia
(B) diaphragmatic hernia
(C) meningomyelocele
(D) pyloric stenosis
(E) tracheoesophageal fistula

Each of the following factors decreases uterine blood flow EXCEPT
(A) aortocaval compression
(B) hypocarbia
(C) hypoxia
(D) sympathetic block
(E) uterine contractions

Administration of magnesium sulfate for treatment of preeclampsia results in a decreased dose requirement for each of the following drugs EXCEPT
(A) bupivacaine
(B) halothane
(C) midazolam
(D) succinylcholine
(E) vecuronium

When methylmethacrylate is inserted into the femur, each of the following may occur EXCEPT
(A) monomer metabolic breakdown
(B) vasodilation
(C) hypercarbia
(D) hypoxia
(E) increased intramedullary pressure

Each of the following is an effect of intravascular radiographic contrast media EXCEPT
(A) altered protein binding of anesthetic drugs
(B) bronchospasm
(C) increased systemic vascular resistance
(D) pulmonary edema
(E) seizures
