
The jet ventilation technique using an injector during laryngobronchoscopy relies on
(A) air entrainment
(B) relative density of inhaled gases
(C) presence of an endotracheal tube
(D) presence of spontaneous ventilation
(E) use of helium-oxygen mixtures

Which of the following postoperative treatments decreases the risk for deep venous thrombosis?
(A) Blood transfusion
(B) Epidural anesthesia
(C) Etomidate
(D) Ketorolac
(E) Patient-controlled analgesia

Three hours after total thyroidectomy, a 33-year-old man develops inspiratory stridor. The most likely cause is
(A) hematoma formation
(B) tracheomalacia
(C) tetany
(D) recurrent laryngeal nerve injury
(E) superior laryngeal nerve injury

Which of the following is suggestive of epiglottitis rather than croup?
(A) A 2-year-old child with a harsh, barking cough
(B) A 4-year-old child who insists on sitting up and leaning forward
(C) Leukocyte count of 10,000/mm3 with marked lymphocytosis
(D) Rectal temperature of 38.5°C
(E) Subglottic narrowing (steeple sign) on lateral neck radiograph

Following protamine administration, profound pulmonary hypertension is most likely initiated by release of
(A) epinephrine
(B) histamine
(C) leukotriene
(D) norepinephrine
(E) thromboxane

Epidural administration of corticosteroids is most effective in relieving pain in patients with which of the following conditions?
(A) Back pain caused by metastatic cancer
(B) Postherpetic neuralgia
(C) Postlaminectomy syndrome
(D) Postural low back pain
(E) Radiculopathy following disk herniation

A 2.8-kg 8-hour-old infant undergoes laparotomy for a ruptured omphalocele. Following primary closure of the abdominal wall, arterial blood gases are Pa02 40 mmHg (Fi02 0.6), PaC02 55 mmHg, and pH 7.1. Blood pressure is 30/20 mmHg. After increasing the Fi02, the most appropriate action would be to
(A) obtain a radiograph of the chest immediately
(B) withdraw the endotracheal tube 1 cm
(C) assess the patient for coexisting congenital heart disease
(D) administer lactated Ringer's solution 15 ml/kg
(E) ask the surgeon to reopen the wound

A patient is undergoing thoracotomy in the lateral position. Five minutes after initiation of one-lung ventilation using a double-lumen tube and 100% oxygen, Sp02 decreases from 100% to 65%. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial step in management?
(A) Adding continuous positive airway pressure to the nondependent lung
(B) Adding positive end-expiratory pressure to the dependent lung
(C) Increasing the tidal volume to the dependent lung
(D) Resuming two-lung ventilation
(E) Verifying the position of the double-lumen tube

Which of the following combinations of hemoglobin, blood gases, and cardiac output provides the greatest delivery of oxygen to tissue? (Hgb, PaO2, SaO2, CO)
(A)	7.    85   95	7.0
(B)	8.0	  290  100	8.0
(C)	9.9	  61   90	9.8
(D)	12.0  140  100  4.5
(E)	16.0  40   75	5.8

A 50-year-old patient is undergoing middle ear exploration with isoflurane, nitrous oxide, and oxygen anesthesia. Ventilation is controlled; PetC02 is 35 mmHg, heart rate is 90 bpm, and blood pressure is 120/70 mmHg. Assistance is needed to minimize bleeding in the surgical field. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
(A) Addition of 5 cmH20 positive end-expiratory pressure
(B) Changing the anesthetic agent to halothane
(C) Hyperventilation to a PetC02 of 20 mmHg
(D) Placing the patient in reverse Trendelenburg position
(E) Titration of nitroprusside to a mean arterial pressure of 55 mmHg

Which of the following EEG findings is expected during maintenance anesthesia with high-dose fentanyl (50 ju-g/kg), nitrous oxide, and oxygen?
(A) Low-frequency high-voltage activity
(B) Nondominant hemispheric slowing
(C) Predominant alpha activity
(D) Prominent beta activity
(E) Spindle-shaped bursts

During attempted awake intubation, the patient gags when the laryngoscope presses on the base of the tongue. Which of the following cranial nerves is responsible for the afferent limb of this reflex?
(A) Trigeminal
(B) Facial
(C) Glossopharyngeal
(D) Vagus
(E) Hypoglossal

A 70-kg 24-year-old man with bilateral pneumonia whose lungs are being mechanically ventilated has the following measured parameters: tidal volume 750 ml; Fi02 0.7; rate 12/min; positive end-expiratory pressure 10 cmH20; Pa02 75 mmHg; PaC02 55 mmHg; pH 7.30. Which of the following alterations should be made in the ventilatory settings?
(A) Decreasing positive end-expiratory pressure
(B) Decreasing respiratory rate
(C) Increasing fresh gas flow rate
(D) Increasing Fi02
(E) Increasing tidal volume

Mivacurium-induced neuromuscular blockade is prolonged for the greatest period of time in patients who have which of the following conditions?
(A) Ethanol-induced hepatitis
(B) Hemiplegia
(C) Pseudocholinesterase deficiency
(D) Renal insufficiency
(E) Thermal burns

If minute ventilation remains constant, a decrease in end-expiratory carbon dioxide concentration will occur with
(A) a decrease in physiologic dead space
(B) a decrease in cardiac output
(C) a decrease in physiologic shunt fraction
(D) the development of metabolic alkalosis
(E) an increase in body temperature

A patient with lumbar disk disease requires lumbar epidural injection of a corticosteroid for control of low back pain. Which of the following statements concerning this treatment is true?
(A) Maximum effect occurs one hour after injection
(B) Maximum effect occurs when drug concentration peaks in cerebrospinal fluid
(C) Maximum effect occurs during the acute phase of the disease
(D) The beneficial effect results primarily from sympathetic neurolysis
(E) It is contraindicated if the patient has had prior surgical procedures on the lumbar disks

Which of the following statements concerning the innervation of the larynx is true?
(A) The glossopharyngeal nerve provides motor innervation to the vocal cords
(B) The recurrent laryngeal nerve provides sensory innervation to the mucosa of the larynx above the vocal cords
(C) The hypoglossal nerve provides sensory innervation to the aryepiglottic folds
(D) Unilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve injury results in an abducted vocal cord on the injured side
(E) The vagus nerve provides innervation to all structures below the vocal cords

Which of the following is most likely to increase hepatic blood flow during general anesthesia?
(A) Addition of positive end-expiratory pressure
(B) Discontinuation of isoflurane and administration of enflurane
(C) Increased PaC02
(D) Moderate controlled hypotension
(E) Subarachnoid administration of morphine

Which of the following should be included in the preoperative management of a 12-year-old patient with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy who is unable to ambulate?
(A) Determination of serum creatine kinase concentration
(B) Determination of serum potassium concentration
(C) Liver function profile
(D) Echocardiography
(E) Dantrolene prophylaxis

A 68-year-old woman is scheduled for a mastectomy. She has not taken prescription medications for 24 hours. Preoperative examination shows a heart rate of 104 bpm and blood pressure of 200/105 mmHg. The most likely cause of these findings is omission of which of the following drugs?
(A) Amiodarone
(B) Clonidine
(C) Enalapril
(D) Hydralazine
(E) Nifedipine

A 72-year-old man has massive venous hemorrhage during a radical prostatectomy. Blood pressure decreases from 110/60 to 75/30 mmHg and central venous pressure decreases from 12 to 4 mmHg. PetC02 decreases from 34 to 24 mmHg during constant minute ventilation. The most appropriate next step should be to
(A) apply positive end-expiratory pressure to the breathing circuit
(B) attempt to aspirate air from the central venous catheter
(C) expand intravascular volume
(D) place the patient in the Trendelenburg position
(E) turn the patient to the left lateral decubitus position

Following induction of general anesthesia, mask ventilation and the initial attempt at intubation is unsuccessful. Which of the following procedures is most appropriate?
(A) Administration of additional muscle relaxant
(B) Repeat attempt at intubation
(C) Fiberoptic intubation
(D) Retrograde intubation
(E) Cricothyroidotomy

Which of the following is described by the standard deviation during analysis of the results of a clinical study?
(A) Central tendency of the study results
(B) Distribution of the results of the study group
(C) Range of the results of the study group
(D) Regression analysis of the study group
(E) Statistical significance of the difference between the study groups

A 34-year-old man is undergoing appendectomy during spinal anesthesia with T2 sensory blockade. Approximately 15 minutes after the injection of bupivacaine 15 mg, heart rate decreases to 34 bpm and blood pressure decreases to 70/40 mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Baroreceptor stimulation
(B) Bupivacaine cardiotoxicity
(C) Hypovolemia
(D) Thoracic sympathetic blockade
(E) Vasovagal reflex

Which of the following statements concerning brain stem auditory evoked responses is true?
(A) They monitor cortical function
(B) They are not affected by changes in PaC02
(C) They are not affected by mild hypothermia (34°C)
(D) They are more resistant to anesthetic effects than somatosensory evoked responses
(E) They are abolished coincident with flattening of the EEG

Addition of 20 cmH20 positive end-expiratory pressure to a patient receiving controlled mechanical ventilation decreases cardiac output and left ventricular function by
(A) increasing right ventricular preload
(B) increasing right ventricular afterload
(C) increasing left ventricular preload
(D) increasing left ventricular afterload
(E) producing myocardial ischemia

If administered prior to induction of anesthesia, which of the following drugs is most likely to cause tachycardia?
(A) Fentanyl
(B) Meperidine
(C) Midazolam
(D) Morphine
(E) Sufentanil

Which of the following correctly describes the anatomical location of the brachial plexus?
(A) Adjacent to the subclavian vein as it passes between the scalene muscles
(B) Between the middle and posterior scalene muscles
(C) Posterior to the first rib
(D) Posterior to the subclavian artery
(E) Posterior to the vertebral artery

A 32-year-old man is scheduled for hernia repair. He underwent heart transplantation for cardiomyopathy five years ago. Which of the following findings is most likely?
(A) Absence of coronary atherosclerosis
(B) Biventricular hypokinesis on echocardiography
(C) Down-regulation of cardiac beta-adrenergic receptors
(D) Increased heart rate at rest
(E) Right ventricular hypertrophy

Which of the following decreases the risk for burns during electrocauterization?
(A) Conductive flooring
(B) Grounding of the patient to the operating table
(C) Increased resistance at the return electrode
(D) Isolation of the current output of the electrosurgical unit
(E) Placement of the return electrode at a distance from the surgical site

Which of the following best explains why neonates are at greater risk than adults for hypothermia during surgical procedures?
(A) Greater body surface area relative to body mass
(B) Greater cutaneous vasodilation at equal MAC concentrations of volatile anesthetics
(C) Greater dependence on shivering to produce heat
(D) Inability to increase metabolic rate
(E) Less insulation by adipose tissue

Two opened oxygen cylinders, one full and one empty, are attached to an anesthesia machine. The check valve to the empty cylinder fails. This is expected to result in
(A) activation of the fail-safe device
(B) cessation of oxygen flow to the anesthesia circuit
(C) filling of the empty cylinder with a mixture of all gases supplied to the anesthesia machine
(D) increase in the temperature of the empty cylinder
(E) interruption of gas delivery from the central oxygen source

Which of the following statements concerning myasthenia gravis is true?
(A) Neostigmine is inappropriate for antagonism of neuromuscular blockade
(B) The number of acetylcholine receptors is decreased
(C) Plasma cholinesterase concentration is decreased
(D) The risk for malignant hyperthermia is increased
(E) Succinylcholine is contraindicated

Which of the following statements concerning anesthesia machine flowmeters is true?
(A) At high gas flows, viscosity is the predominant determinant of flow rate
(B) At low flow rates, gas density is the predominant determinant of flow rate
(C) Flowmeters should be upstream from the oxygen fail-safe device
(D) The oxygen flowmeter should be upstream from other flowmeters
(E) Tapered flow tubes allow a constant decrease in pressure across the float

Which of the following statements concerning the check valve of the common gas outlet on an anesthesia gas machine is true?
(A) It prevents backflow into vaporizers
(B) It prevents delivery of a hypoxic mixture
(C) It prevents rebreathing
(D) It is located downstream from the oxygen flush valve
(E) It is required for proper functioning of the proportioning system

Phantom limb pain is an example of which of the following types of pain?
(A) Central pain
(B) Nociceptive pain
(C) Psychosomatic pain
(D) Sympathetically mediated pain
(E) Vasospastic pain

Which of the following is the most appropriate first intervention after instituting basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation for an unwitnessed cardiac arrest with ventricular fibrillation?
(A) Administration of sodium bicarbonate
(B) Intravenous administration of epinephrine
(C) Administration of a precordial "thump"
(D) Defibrillation using 200 joules
(E) Defibrillation using 360 joules

In an unpremedicated, spontaneously breathing patient, an alveolar halothane concentration of 0.74% in oxygen is consistently associated with
(A) absence of overt response to skin incision
(B) constricted pupils
(C) flaccidity of abdominal muscles
(D) normal glomerular filtration rate
(E) normal myocardial contractility

Which of the following findings is an early indication of cyanide toxicity?
(A) Bronchospasm
(B) Cardiac dysrhythmias
(C) Decreased mixed venous P02
(D) Increased intracranial pressure
(E) Metabolic acidosis

Which of the following findings is most likely in patients receiving intravenous amrinone?
(A) Decreased left ventricular afterload
(B) Decreased myocardial oxygen consumption
(C) Increased atrioventricular conduction
(D) Increased right ventricular preload
(E) Stimulation of beta,-adrenergic receptors

Depression of cerebral oxygen requirements below the level required to create an isoelectric EEG can be achieved by
(A) administration of isoflurane
(B) administration of nimodipine
(C) barbiturate coma
(D) hyperventilation
(E) hypothermia

A 68-year-old woman who is receiving urokinase for deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli requires emergency laparotomy for a bleeding gastric ulcer. Which of the following agents is most appropriate to reverse the effects of urokinase?
(A) Cryoprecipitate
(B) Factor VIII concentrate
(C) Fresh frozen plasma
(D) Platelets
(E) Vitamin K

The concentration of bupivacaine is higher in maternal blood than in fetal blood because
(A) bupivacaine is metabolized in the placenta
(B) maternal blood has a higher pH
(C) maternal blood has greater plasma protein binding
(D) maternal hemoglobin has a higher affinity for bupivacaine
(E) placental transfer of bupivacaine is limited

Which of the following is most likely to decrease in the affected area following a paravertebral lumbar sympathetic block?
(A) Cutaneous blood flow
(B) Pinprick sensation
(C) Sweating
(D) Temperature sensation
(E) Venous capacitance

A patient who is scheduled for emergency laparotomy for bowel obstruction has had oliguria for three hours. She has had hypertension for 10 years. Which of the following laboratory findings would indicate preoperative fluid challenge?
(A) Urine osmolality: 300 mOsm/L
(B) Urine specific gravity: 1.015
(C) Urine sodium concentration: 35 mEq/L
(D) Fractional excretion of sodium: 0.5
(E) Ratio of urine-to-plasma creatinine concentrations: 8

Which of the following is the most important function of temperature compensation in anesthetic vaporizers?
(A) Compensation for changes in the specific heat of the anesthetic during vaporization
(B) Delivery of diluent gas at a constant temperature regardless of flow rate
(C) Increase of bypass flow when the vaporizer is cooled by high fresh gas flow
(D) Maintenance of constant anesthetic vapor output over a range of vaporizer temperatures
(E) Maintenance of constant vapor concentrations at low flow rates

Which of the following is the most likely cause of the coronary steal phenomenon?
(A) Idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis (IHSS)
(B) Decreased cardiac contractility
(C) Dilation of coronary arterioles
(D) Dilation of epicardial coronary arteries
(E) Increased systemic vascular resistance

Which of the following is the most likely effect of intramuscular ketamine used for induction of anesthesia in a 2-year-old child undergoing elective surgery?
(A) Bronchoconstriction
(B) Decreased heart rate
(C) Decreased intracranial pressure
(D) Increased salivation
(E) Respiratory depression

Which of the following is the most common infection transmitted through transfusion of blood products?
(A) Epstein-Barr virus
(B) Hepatitis B
(C) Hepatitis C
(D) Human immunodeficiency virus
(E) Toxoplasmosis

A 19-year-old woman has severe nausea and vomiting following laparoscopy. After intramuscular administration of prochlorperazine 10 mg, she has muscle spasms in the face, neck, and tongue. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Baclofen
(B) Diphenhydramine
(C) Epinephrine
(D) Hydrocortisone
(E) Naloxone

A 70-year-old man undergoes cross clamping of the aorta for repair of an abdominal aneurysm. Which of the following methods is most appropriate for decreasing hypotension associated with removal of the cross clamp?
(A) Administration of a phenylephrine bolus when the cross clamp is removed
(B) Correction of any base deficit with sodium bicarbonate during clamping
(C) Decrease of anesthetic to allow blood pressure to increase to 20% above preclamp levels
(D) Volume loading to increase pulmonary artery occlusion pressure prior to removal
(E) Infusion of dopamine 10 minutes prior to removal

A 57-year-old man with hepatocellular disease is scheduled to undergo a colectomy for colon cancer. Preoperative laboratory studies show a plasma albumin concentration of 2.4 g/dl (normal = 3.5 to 5.5 g/dl); prothrombin time is 16 sec (control 12 sec). Which of the following statements concerning the anesthetic management of this patient is true?
(A) Atracurium will have a prolonged duration of action
(B) The risk for perioperative hyperglycemia is increased
(C) Mivacurium will have a shortened duration of action
(D) The unbound fraction of thiopental will be increased
(E) Vitamin K injection will normalize the prothrombin time

A patient has a decrease in heart rate from 80 to 50 bpm and a decrease in blood pressure from 140/90 to 60/40 mmHg while in the recovery room after adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma. The most appropriate treatment is administration of
(A) atropine
(B) calcium
(C) hydrocortisone
(D) isoproterenol
(E) norepinephrine

A 20-year-old man is scheduled for emergency laparotomy for an abdominal stab wound. Ten minutes after induction with oxygen, thiopental, and succinylcholine, blood pressure is 220/120 mmHg and esophageal temperature is 39°C. ST-segment depression of 4 mm is noted in ECG lead V5. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Adrenal laceration
(B) Cocaine intoxication
(C) Inadequate anesthesia
(D) Malignant hyperthermia
(E) Small cardiac puncture

A 23-year-old man who is receiving his first anesthetic has not resumed spontaneous ventilation two hours after receiving succinylcholine. The train-of-four monitor shows no twitch response. Which of the following is the most likely cho-linesterase genotype in this patient?
(A) Atypical :atypical
(B) Fluoride-resistant:fluoride-resistant
(C) Fluoride-resistant:silent
(D) Normal :normal
(E) Normal :silent

A 62-year-old man is in the intensive care unit after successful craniotomy for excision of a meningioma. Blood volume is normal; laboratory studies show serum sodium concentration of 120 mEq/L, serum osmolality of 260 mOsm/L, urine sodium concentration of 50 mEq/L, and urine osmolality of 820 mOsm/L.
Which of the following is the most likely explanation?
(A) Fluid overload with 5% dextrose in water
(B) Inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone
(C) Increased free water clearance
(D) Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus
(E) Neurogenic diabetes insipidus

A 70-year-old man has a pacemaker set at VOO mode at 70 bpm with temporary atrial and ventricular wires placed prior to separation from cardiopulmonary bypass. Fifteen minutes after separation, he develops atrial fibrillation with a ventricular response of 80 to 100 bpm. Which of the following ECG findings is most likely?
(A) Irregular atrial and ventricular complexes with loss of pacer artifacts
(B) Irregular ventricular complexes with preserved ventricular pacer artifacts at 70 bpm
(C) Occasional pacer artifacts when intrinsic ventricular rate is slower than 70 bpm
(D) Regular ventricular complexes at 70 bpm
(E) Ventricular complexes with preserved atrial and ventricular pacer artifacts at 70 bpm

A 62-year-old woman with obesity and type II diabetes mellitus is scheduled to undergo vitrectomy of the right eye. Five minutes after retrobulbar injection with 0.75% bupivacaine 4 ml and intravenous administration of fentanyl 50 ju-g and midazolam 1 mg, she is apneic and unresponsive. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Fentanyl-midazolam interaction
(B) Hypoglycemia
(C) Intravenous bupivacaine
(D) Retrobulbar hematoma
(E) Subarachnoid bupivacaine

A 50-year-old man is scheduled to undergo emergency craniotomy for evacuation of an epidural hematoma. His Glasgow Coma Scale score is 6; heart rate is 54 bpm, and blood pressure is 190/110 mmHg. The most appropriate initial management is administration of which of the following agents?
(A) Atropine
(B) Mannitol
(C) Nimodipine
(D) Sodium nitroprusside
(E) Thiopental

Which of the following effects of catecholamine results in the greatest increase in preload?
(A) Augmented contractility
(B) Decreased afterload
(C) Decreased venous capacitance
(D) Improved chronotropism
(E) Increased cardiac output

Which of the following statements concerning fetal hemoglobin is true?
(A) It makes up less than 50% of the total hemoglobin in the neonate
(B) It has less affinity for oxygen than adult hemoglobin
(C) It binds with greater affinity to 2,3-DPG than adult hemoglobin
(D) It shifts the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve to the left
(E) It has a P50 of 27 mmHg

Which of the following produces falsely high Sp02?
(A) Carboxyhemoglobin
(B) Fetal hemoglobin
(C) Hematocrit less than 20%
(D) Indigo carmine
(E) Methylene blue

(A) The initial lesion is dilation of retinal capillaries
(B) It can be prevented by maintaining Fi02 below 0.4
(C) It is less likely to develop if Pa02 is maintained below 70 mmHg
(D) The incidence is unrelated to birth weight
(E) Infants whose postconceptual age has reached 40 weeks are no longer at risk

Which of the following is a characteristic of phase II neuromuscular block?
(A) It is diagnosed by the intravenous administration of calcium
(B) It is potentiated by edrophonium
(C) It produces nondepolarizing train-of-four characteristics
(D) It requires evaluation for pseudocholinesterase deficiency
(E) It requires less succinylcholine than a phase I block

Tingling in the fifth finger during spinal anesthesia is associated with anesthesia at which of the following dermatomes?
(A) C4
(B) C6
(C) C8
(D) T2
(E) T4

A patient who is scheduled for a parathyroidectomy for a parathyroid adenoma has a preoperative serum calcium concentration of 13.5 mg/dl. The ECG shows no acute changes. The most appropriate preoperative management is administration of
(A) calcitonin
(B) hydrocortisone
(C) intravenous saline solution
(D) mannitol
(E) potassium phosphate

Which of the following increases blood flow to the lower lobe of the right lung?
(A) Collapsing the right lung during anesthesia
(B) The expiratory phase of spontaneous ventilation
(C) The inspiratory phase of mechanical ventilation
(D) Moving from the supine to the upright position
(E) Moving from the supine to the left lateral decubitus position

Which of the following processes is primarily responsible for the decrease in core body temperature that occurs during the first hour of general anesthesia?
(A) Decreased production of heat
(B) Convective heat loss caused by cutaneous vasodilation
(C) Evaporative heat loss during skin preparation
(D) Heat loss from the respiratory tract
(E) Redistribution of core body heat to the periphery

(A) At the midposterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle
(B) In the interscalene groove
(C) Over the mastoid process
(D) Over the transverse process of C4
(E) Over Chassaignac's tubercle

During laser microsurgery of the larynx, a rubber endotracheal tube wrapped with aluminum-foil tape starts to smolder and give off smoke. The first step is to
(A) suction the endotracheal tube
(B) add helium to the inspired gas mixture
(C) remove the endotracheal tube
(D) turn off the fresh gas flow
(E) pack a saline-soaked gauze sponge into the hypopharynx

Three hours prior to induction of anesthesia for elective laparotomy, a 40-kg 8-year-old boy is anxious and clings to his parents. Which of the following preanesthetic medications is most appropriate?
(A) Oral ketamine
(B) Oral midazolam
(C) Rectal methohexital
(D) Intramuscular droperidol
(E) Intramuscular promethazine

The best indication that a patient is ready for discharge from an outpatient facility after spinal anesthesia is return of
(A) pinprick sensation to the S4-5 dermatome
(B) micturition
(C) plantar flexion
(D) proprioception of the big toe
(E) knee extension

Which of the following findings is most likely in patients with acute transection of the spinal cord at the level of C6?
(A) Autonomic hyperreflexia
(B) Hyperkalemia with administration of succinylcholine
(C) Hypotension
(D) Increased pulmonary blood flow
(E) Tachycardia

Administration of succinylcholine 1 mg/kg to a pregnant woman rarely causes fetal neuromuscular blockade. Which characteristic of succinylcholine best explains this phenomenon?
(A) High protein binding
(B) Ionization
(C) Lack of passive placental diffusion
(D) Lipid solubility
(E) Metabolism in the fetal liver

Which of the following is an effect of magnesium sulfate at the neuromuscular junction?
(A) Augmentation of acetylcholine reuptake
(B) Decrease in acetylcholine binding
(C) Decrease in acetylcholine metabolism
(D) Decrease in the prejunctional release of acetylcholine
(E) Potentiation of the effects of ionized calcium

A neurologically intact 48-year-old woman is scheduled for removal of a parietal lobe arteriovenous malformation. The relative risk for complete resection is to be determined by a test occlusion of the feeding artery. Which of the following intraoperative monitoring techniques is most appropriate for this test?
(A) Brain stem auditory evoked potentials
(B) Cerebral blood flow using radioactive xenon
(C) EEG
(D) Evoked potentials elicited by stimulating the posterior tibial nerve
(E) Transcranial Doppler

A 35-year-old patient, who is ASA physical status 1, is scheduled for open cholecystectomy under general anesthesia. Which of the following end-tidal concentrations would most likely block the adrenergic response to skin incision?
(A) Enflurane 1.7%, oxygen
(B) Isoflurane 1.2%, oxygen
(C) Enflurane 0.6%, nitrous oxide 70%, oxygen
(D) Halothane 0.4%, nitrous oxide 70%, oxygen
(E) Isoflurane 1.0%, nitrous oxide 70%, oxygen

A 22-year-old woman with severe preeclampsia vaginally delivers a 3-kg infant after 12 hours of treatment with magnesium sulfate and continuous epidural infusion of bupivacaine 0.0625% and fentanyl 1 /xg/ml at 10 ml/hr. The infant is pink and hypotonic; heart rate is 110 bpm and blood pressure is 35/25 mmHg.
Which of the following is the most appropriate initial management of the infant?
(A) 10% Dextrose in water
(B) Calcium gluconate
(C) Epinephrine
(D) Naloxone
(E) Intubation and ventilation

A 60-year-old man with type II diabetes mellitus requires emergency incision and drainage of a perirectal abscess. Laboratory studies show a serum glucose concentration of 850 mg/dl and a pHa of 7.30. The most appropriate management is administration of regular insulin and which of the following infusions?
(A) 5% Dextrose in water
(B) 5% Dextrose in 0.45% saline solution with potassium chloride
(C) 5% Dextrose in 0.45% saline solution with potassium chloride and mannitol
(D) Normal saline solution
(E) Normal saline solution and sodium bicarbonate

A 70-kg 61-year-old patient undergoes a four-hour resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm during anesthesia with fentanyl and enflurane. Infrarenal clamping is required during the procedure. Twelve hours after the procedure, urine output is 15 ml/hr with a fractional sodium excretion of 6%. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Enflurane nephrotoxicity
(B) Hypovolemia
(C) Intraoperative renal ischemia
(D) Positive pressure ventilation
(E) Unilateral ureteral obstruction

Compared with the adult airway, the neonatal airway has which of the following characteristics?
(A) More cephalad larynx
(B) Narrowest diameter at the vocal cords
(C) Relatively smaller epiglottis
(D) Smaller tongue relative to the size of the oral cavity
(E) Vocal cords perpendicular to the trachea

Four hours after open cholecystectomy, a patient who is breathing spontaneously has an Sp02 of 93% in the supine position and an Sp02 of 98% when placed in the head-up position. The most likely cause of this change is an increase in which of the following?
(A) Functional residual capacity
(B) Minute ventilation
(C) Pulmonary blood flow
(D) Residual volume
(E) Vital capacity

(A) It augments gas inflow in response to spontaneous inspiration
(B) It increases inspiratory airway pressure during controlled mandatory ventilation
(C) It requires the use of positive end-expiratory pressure
(D) It functions independently of airway resistance/lung compliance
(E) It correlates linearly with spontaneously achieved tidal volume

Retrobulbar block for ophthalmologic surgery can be administered safely to patients with which of the following conditions?
(A) Agitation
(B) Bleeding disorder
(C) Frequent coughing spasms
(D) Increased intraocular pressure
(E) Perforated globe

In a normally functioning circle anesthesia system, if the length of the inspiratory and expiratory hose is doubled, the mechanical dead space will be
(A) halved
(B) unchanged
(C) doubled
(D) quadrupled
(E) dependent on compression volume

Which of the following is a manifestation of preeclampsia?
(A) Hypovolemia
(B) Increased colloid osmotic pressure
(C) Natriuresis
(D) Resistance to catecholamines
(E) Thrombocytosis

A 60-kg 25-year-old woman is undergoing laparoscopy in the Trendelenburg position during general anesthesia. Five minutes after peritoneal inflation, the peak airway pressure required to deliver a tidal volume of 800 ml increases from 25 cmH20 to 60 cmH20. Sp02 decreases from 100% to 80% and systolic blood pressure increases from 110 mmHg to 140 mmHg.
Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Acute tension pneumothorax
(B) Excessively steep Trendelenburg position
(C) Excessive ventilator tidal volume setting
(D) Kink in the endotracheal tube
(E) Massive carbon dioxide embolism

A healthy patient is receiving general endotracheal anesthesia with nitrous oxide 4 L/min, oxygen 2 L/min, and isoflurane 1% with spontaneous ventilation. The inspiratory breathing hose becomes disconnected from the inspiratory valve. The earliest alarm will be produced by
(A) a pulse oximeter with finger probe set to alarm at 60% saturation
(B) a mass spectrometer set to alarm when no breath is detected for 30 seconds
(C) an oxygen analyzer mounted on the inspiratory valve outlet and set to alarm at 25% oxygen concentration
(D) a capnograph sensor at the Y-piece that alarms when end-tidal carbon dioxide tension is greater than 60
mmHg
(E) an oxygen analyzer mounted on the expiratory valve inlet and set to alarm at 25% oxygen concentration

Compared with adults, neonates are more likely to become hypoxemic following anesthesia and extubation because of a relatively
(A) higher rate of oxygen consumption
(B) greater sensitivity to neuromuscular blockade
(C) larger Vd/Vt ratio
(D) lower blood pressure
(E) smaller functional residual capacity

Which of the following changes in pulmonary function best explains the more rapid rate of rise of alveolar concentration of volatile anesthetics in pregnant women than in nonpregnant women?
(A) Decreased functional residual capacity
(B) Decreased dead space ventilation
(C) Increased cardiac output
(D) Increased oxygen consumption
(E) Increased pulmonary venous admixture

A 24-year-old woman with abruptio placentae at 38 weeks' gestation has bleeding at the site of the intravenous catheter. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Diffuse vasculitis
(B) Disseminated intravascular coagulation
(C) Isolated factor VIII deficiency
(D) Primary fibrinolysis
(E) Vitamin K deficiency

The development of tachycardia is most hazardous in patients with which of the following conditions?
(A) Aortic insufficiency
(B) Cardiac tamponade
(C) Mitral insufficiency
(D) Mitral stenosis
(E) Ventricular septal defect

If a patient with excessive bleeding during exploratory laparotomy has a normal activated clotting time, the LEAST likely cause of the bleeding is
(A) antithrombin HI deficiency
(B) dilutional thrombocytopenia
(C) fibrinolysis
(D) administration of heparin 5000 units
(E) preoperative ingestion of aspirin

A 69-year-old woman with mitral stenosis and atrial fibrillation is scheduled for mitral valve replacement and removal of a left atrial thrombus. After administration of pancuronium, heart rate increases to 140 bpm and blood pressure decreases to 70/40 mmHg. Which of the following is the LEAST appropriate treatment?
(A) Cardioversion
(B) Edrophonium
(C) Esmolol
(D) Phenylephrine
(E) Verapamil

The condition LEAST likely to be associated with sustained pain relief following a nerve block is
(A) causalgia
(B) myofascial pain
(C) diabetic neuropathy
(D) acute herpes zoster
(E) reflex sympathetic dystrophy

(A) It decreases gastric pH
(B) It causes bronchoconstriction
(C) It decreases lower esophageal sphincter tone
(D) It does not prevent succinylcholine-induced bradycardia
(E) It causes a central anticholinergic syndrome

Which of the following is an effect of ketorolac administered after vaginal hysterectomy?
(A) Euphoria
(B) Prolonged prothrombin time
(C) Respiratory depression
(D) Suppression of inflammation
(E) Thrombocytopenia

Each of the following conditions is associated with autonomic hyperreflexia in patients with spinal cord injury EXCEPT
(A) bradycardia
(B) flushing below the level of injury
(C) headache
(D) sweating above the level of injury
(E) systolic hypertension

To predict the requirement for isoflurane in milliliters of vapor per minute during closed circuit anesthesia, each of the following is necessary EXCEPT
(A) cardiac output
(B) oxygen consumption
(C) MAC of isoflurane
(D) duration of administration
(E) blood-gas partition coefficient

When used for irrigation during transurethral resection of the prostate, glycine 1.5% is associated with each of the following EXCEPT
(A) hemolysis
(B) hyperammonemia
(C) cerebral edema
(D) hypofibrinogenemia
(E) visual disturbances

Patients with acute alcohol intoxication are at increased risk for each of the following complications of general anesthesia EXCEPT
(A) aspiration of gastric contents
(B) hyperglycemia
(C) hypothermia
(D) ketoacidosis
(E) respiratory depression

Each of the following conditions causes resistance to nondepolarizing neuromuscular blockade EXCEPT
(A) chronic severe infections
(B) major burns
(C) myotonia congenita
(D) prolonged immobilization
(E) upper motor neuron injury

Each of the following findings is characteristic of chronic reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the extremities EXCEPT
(A) allodynia
(B) bone demineralization
(C) edema
(D) hyperpathia
(E) warm skin

Each of the following is a complication of celiac plexus block with 0.5% lidocaine 40 ml EXCEPT
(A) hematuria
(B) ileus
(C) postural hypotension
(D) retroperitoneal hematoma
(E) weakness of hip flexors

Each of the following conditions is a complication of mediastinoscopy EXCEPT
(A) air embolism
(B) hemorrhage
(C) injury to the left recurrent laryngeal nerve
(D) occlusion of the left carotid artery
(E) tension pneumothorax

Each of the following is an effect of electroconvulsive therapy EXCEPT
(A) increased intracranial blood volume
(B) increased oxygen consumption
(C) inhibition of parasympathetic activity
(D) retrograde amnesia
(E) stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system

(A) Preoperative administration of alpha-adrenergic inhibitors will usually reverse ECG changes due to
catecholamine myocarditis
(B) Preoperative administration of alpha-adrenergic inhibitors decreases operative mortality
(C) Beta-adrenergic inhibitors should be administered preoperatively only in conjunction with alpha-adrenergic
inhibitors
(D) Vasopressor therapy may be necessary postoperatively for treatment of hypotension
(E) Nasal congestion is a sign of inadequate alpha-adrenergic block

A 22-year-old woman with preeclampsia has undergone emergency cesarean delivery during general anesthesia. At the completion of the surgery, attempts at reversal of vecuronium are unsuccessful. Each of the following could be a cause of this failure EXCEPT
(A) hypoalbuminemia
(B) hypothermia
(C) perioperative administration of gentamicin
(D) perioperative administration of magnesium sulfate
(E) respiratory acidosis
