
Coughing that occurs during awake intubation is prevented by local anesthetic block of which of the following nerves?
(A) Glossopharyngeal
(B) Hypoglossal
(C) Recurrent laryngeal and glossopharyngeal
(D) Recurrent laryngeal and superior laryngeal
(E) Superior laryngeal and glossopharyngeal

Which of the following is the most common initial manifestation of malignant hyperthermia?
(A) Hyperkalemia
(B) Increased distal esophageal temperature
(C) Increased PETC02
(D) Red discoloration of urine
(E) Ventricular irritability

Which of the following will most closely mimic the effects of stellate ganglion block?
(A) Axillary perivascular block with 25 mL of 1.5% lidocaine
(B) Cervical nerve block at C2-5 with 2 mL of 1.5% lidocaine
(C) Supraclavicular block at the level of the first rib with 25 mL of 1.5% lidocaine
(D) Block of the median, radial, ulnar, musculocutaneous, and intercostobrachial nerves
(E) Excision of thoracic sympathetic ganglia Tl-4

Postdural puncture headache occurs most commonly in which of the following patients?
(A) Children
(B) Elderly persons
(C) Misn
(D) Parturients
(E) Persons with obesity

The highest s.erum fluoride levels are seen following the administration of which of the following volatile anesthetics?
(A) Desflurane
(B) Enflurane
(C) Halothane
(D) Isoflurane
(E) Sevoflurane

The initial reduction in core temperature during general anesthesia is caused by
(A) ablation of thermoregulatory vasoconstriction
(B) conductive heat loss
(C) evaporative heat loss in the respiratory tract
(D) neuromuscular blockade
(E) redistribution of heat from the core to the periphery

In patients with blunt head trauma, cerebral perfusion pressure is determined by the gradient between
(A) diastolic pressure and central venous pressure
(B) intracranial pressure and central venous pressure
(C) mean arterial pressure and central venous pressure
(D) mean arterial pressure and intracranial pressure
(E) systolic pressure and intracranial pressure

Which of the following muscle relaxants has a prolonged duration of action in a patient who is homozygous for atypical plasma cholinesterase?
(A) Atracurium
(B) Doxacurium
(C) Mivacurium
(D) Pipecuronium
(E) Vecuronium

Cholinergic receptor blockade
(A) decreases intraocular pressure
(B) decreases lower esophageal sphincter tone
(C) increases gastrointestinal motility
(D) induces diaphoresis
(E) produces copious secretions

A 37-year-old woman with pregnancy-induced hypertension develops oliguria two hours after cesarean delivery during epidural .anesthesia. Despite infusion of 2000 mL of crystalloid solution, urine output remains 10 mL/hr. Which of the following laboratory findings is most suggestive of acute tubular necrosis?
(A) Blood urea nitrogen level of 30 mg/dL
(B) Serum creatinine level of 1.2 mg/dL
(C) Urinary/plasma osmolality of 1:1
(D) Urinary sodium level of 10 mEq/L
(E) Urinary specific gravity of 1.024

Desflurane at a stable alveolar concentration of 7%
(A) causes bradycardia
(B) decreases cerebrovascular resistance
(C) degrades in soda lime
(D) increases systemic vascular resistance
(E) stimulates the respiratory centers

Five minutes after initiating one-lung ventilation using a double-lumen endobronchial tube, a 70-year-old patient has a decrease in Sp02 from 99% to 90%. Tidal volume and respiratory rate are unchanged. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy verifies appropriate positioning of the tube. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the desaturation?
(A) Blood flow to the nondependent lung
(B) Failure of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction in the dependent lung
(C) Inadequate filling of the bronchial cuff
(D) Inadequate minute ventilation
(E) Surgical manipulation of the nondependent lung

Which of the following statements regarding innervation of the upper extremity is true?
(A) Blockade of the radial nerve decreases the patient's ability to spread the fingers apart
(B) The brachial plexus receives preganglionic sympathetic fibers arising from C5 through T2
(C) Interscalene injection of the brachial plexus at C6 is likely to spare the axillary nerve.
(D) The musculocutaneous nerves receive contributions from C5 and C6
(E) The vertebral artery lies posterior to the nerve roots of the brachial plexus

A patient undergoes thoracotomy in the lateral decubitus position. Which of the following maneuvers is most likely to increase Pa02 during one-lung ventilation?
(A) Applying continuous positive airway pressure to the nondependent lung
(B) Applying positive end-expiratory pressure to the dependent lung
(C) Increasing inspiratory flow rate
(D) Increasing the tidal volume
(E) Increasing the ventilatory rate

Which of the following is the most likely adverse effect of prolonged intravenous administration of nitroglycerin?
(A) Cyanmethemoglobinemia
(B) Hemolysis
(C) Methemoglobinemia
(D) Neutropenia
(E) Thrombocytopenia

A patient has severe pain after total knee arthroplasty. Systemic opioids are most likely to modify the pain through action at which of the following sites?
(A) Corpus callosum
(B) Hippocampus
(C) Substantia gelatinosa
(D) Substantia nigra
(E) Ventral horn of the spinal cord

Which of the following is characteristic of the pharmacokinetics of alfentanil?
(A) Clearance is greater than that of fentanyl
(B) Elimination half-life is normal in patients with hepatic insufficiency
(C) Protein binding is minimal
(D) The majority of alfentanil in plasma is ionized
(E) Volume of distribution is smaller than that of fentanyl

A 55-year-old man undergoes abdominal perineal resection in the lithotomy position during combined epidural (bupivacaine 0.5%) and isoflurane anesthesia. The epidural catheter is left in place with an infusion of fentanyl 50 jug/hr. Twelve hours after surgery, the patient has left footdrop. Which of the following is the most likely explanation?
(A) Epidural hematoma
(B) Epidural opioid
(C) Inadequate padding of the knee during surgery
(D) Nerve injury from the epidural catheter
(E) Residual effects of the local anesthetic

A 66-year-old woman with essential hypertension has a preoperative blood pressure of 160/95 mmHg despite receiving the usual dose of labetalol on the morning of surgery. Following endotracheal intubation, blood pressure increases to 220/120 mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely explanation?
(A) Decreased arteriolar compliance
(B) Increased circulating blood volume
(C) Increased receptor sensitivity to norepinephrine
(D) Unopposed beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation
(E) Upregulation of alpha-adrenergic receptors

A 60-year-old man undergoing resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm has an increase in measured mixed venous oxygen saturation from 70% to 90%. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Decreased cardiac output
(B) Decreased hematocrit
(C) Intrapulmonary shunting
(D) Right to left shunting at the atrial level
(E) Wedging of the pulmonary artery catheter

A 55-year-old woman who is scheduled to undergo carotid endarterectomy has a history of essential hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Over a 30-minute period beginning one hour after induction of general anesthesia, Sp02 decreases from 99% to 95%. During that time, she has received fentanyl 100 /xg, isoflurane 1%, nitrous oxide 49.5%, oxygen 49.5%, and a nitroglycerin infusion to maintain blood pressure at approximately 160/95 mmHg. Which of the following is the most likely cause for the decline in oxygen saturation?
(A) Decreased cardiac output
(B) Increased dead space ventilation
(C) Inhibition of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction
(D) Mainstem intubation
(E) Second gas effect

A 35-kg child requires mechanical ventilation with 100% oxygen at a tidal volume of 350 mL and a rate of 20/min during a severe asthma attack. The most likely cause of severe hypotension after initiating mechanical ventilation is
(A) hypoxic circulatory depression
(B) inadequate expiratory time
(C) increased pulmonary vascular resistance
(D) respiratory alkalosis
(E) tension pneumothorax

In a patient with ventricular fibrillation refractory to repeated attempts at defibrillation and lidocaine administration, the most appropriate management is administration of
(a) bretylium
(B) procainamide
(C) propranolol
(d) quinidine
(E) verapamil

The flow proportioning system on an anesthesia machine
(A) is regulated primarily by changes in oxygen input pressure
(B) limits nitrous oxide flow when oxygen pressure falls below a preset value
(C) maintains a minimum ratio of oxygen to nitrous oxide in fresh gas flow
(D) precludes the use of a closed system
(E) regulates flows of oxygen and nitrous oxide to maintain a fixed FlO:

Which of the following is the best method of pacing to improve cardiac output in a patient with third-degree heart block?
(A) VOO
(B) AOO
(C) VVI
(D) DVI
(E) Transcutaneous

Which of the following is a potentially beneficial effect of ketamine used for induction of anesthesia?
(A) Analgesia
(B) Attenuation of respiratory response to carbon dioxide
(C) Decreased cerebral metabolic rate
(D) Increased stroke volume in patients with hemorrhagic shock
(E) Preservation of laryngeal reflexes

A 70-kg 78-year-old man undergoing small-bowel resection during anesthesia with isoflurane in oxygen becomes hypotensive and develops frothy pink sputum in the endotracheal tube. Heart rate is HO bpm, blood pressure is 75/60 mmHg, pulmonary artery occlusion pressure is 22 mmHg, and cardiac output is 1.7 L/min. The most appropriate initial step in management is administration of which of the following?
(A) Albumin
(B) Digoxin
(C) Dopamine
(D) Esmolol
(E) Nitroglycerin

One hour after induction of anesthesia for a posterior fossa craniotomy using opioid, relaxant, and nitrous oxide, the brain begins to protrude through the dura. The most effective measure to decrease intracranial pressure is to
(A) administer additional opioid
(B) decrease PaC02 from 25 to 15 mmHg
(C) drain cerebrospinal fluid
(D) discontinue nitrous oxide
(E) induce hypotension

When compared with a healthy 30-year-old man, which of the following respiratory parameters is decreased in an otherwise healthy 80-year-old man?
(A) Alveolar to arterial oxygen gradient
(B) Lung compliance
(C) Ratio of functional residual capacity to total lung capacity
(D) Resting tidal volume
(E) Ventilatory response to carbon dioxide

A 64-year-old man with diabetes mellitus well controlled with NPH insulin undergoes lower extremity revascularization. Following administration of protamine 10 mg, the patient has facial flushing and blood pressure of 60/30 mmHg. The most appropriate initial step in management is administration of which of the following drugs?
(A) Diphenhydramine
(B) Epinephrine 
(C) Hydrocortisone
(D) Norepinephrine 
(E) Phenylephrine

A 26-year-old man who sustained multiple trauma undergoes open reduction and internal fixation of bilateral tibial-fibular fractures during anesthesia with isoflurane. nitrous oxide, and oxygen with positive pressure ventilation. During the procedure, the patient has sudden onset of hypotension, jugular venous distention, deviation of the trachea to the right, and decreased ventilatory compliance. Isoflurane is discontinued and 100% oxygen is administered. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management?
(A) Chest x-ray
(B) Blood tranfusion
(C) Subxiphoid pericardiocentesis
(D) Fiberoptic bronchoscopy
(E) Left chest needle thoracostomy

The decreased duration of action of an intravenous dose of fentanyl compared with an intravenous dose of morphine is best explained by
(A) greater lipid solubility
(B) increased hepatic metabolism
(C) less protein binding
(D) shorter elimination half-life
(E) smaller volume of distribution

A patient receives methohexital 30 mg just before retrobulbar block with 0.25% bupivacaine 4 mL. Over the next 10 minutes, he develops apnea and loses consciousness. Which of the following is the most likely explanation?
(A) Effects of methohexital
(B) Injection of local anesthetic into cerebrospinal fluid
(C) Intravascular injection of local anesthetic
(D) Oculocardiac reflex
(E) Systemic absorption of local anesthetic

Which of the following statements about the standard error of the mean (SE) is true?
(A) Sample mean SE has approximately a 95% chance of containing the population mean
(B) The SE describes the precision of the population mean
(C) The SE describes the range of the sample values
(D) The SE is greater than the standard deviation
(E) The SE is obtained by multiplying the sample standard deviation by the square root of the sample size

A 62-year-old woman with polycythemia vera is scheduled to undergo total knee arthroplasty using a tourniquet. Preoperative hematocrit is 60%. Which of the following is the most appropriate action?
(A) Perform total knee arthroplasty without use of a tourniquet
(B) Preoperative reduction of the hematocrit to 45% to 50%
(C) Prophylactic administration of aprotonin during surgery
(D) Prophylactic administration of epsilon-aminocaproic acid during surgery
(E) Prophylactic administration of low-dose heparin during surgery

Left ventricular end-diastolic volume is most likely to be underestimated by pulmonary artery occlusion pressure in patients with
(A) acute myocardial ischemia 
(B) aortic insufficiency 
(C) mitral stenosis
(D) primary pulmonary hypertension
(E) tricuspid stenosis

Immediately following radical prostatectomy, ketorolac administered for analgesia
(A) aggravates ileus and bladder spasm
(B) increases platelet adhesion
(C) is ideally suited for patient-controlled analgesia
(D) mediates its effects via kappa opioid receptors
(E) produces cyclooxygenase inhibition

During general anesthesia administered through a circle system, the soda lime absorbant is exhausted. No fresh soda lime is available for use. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step to prevent hypercapnia in this patient?
(A) Decreasing the dead space of the circle system
(B) Discontinuing nitrous oxide
(C) Increasing the fresh gas flow
(D) Increasing tidal volume
(E) Switching to spontaneous ventilation

A patient undergoes axillary block for placement of an arteriovenous shunt in the forearm. Blockade of the musculocutaneous nerve is not achieved. Injection of a local anesthetic at which of the following sites will provide the required sensory block?
(A) Between the tendon of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis
(B) Body of coracpbrachialis muscle
(C) Medial to the brachial artery at the elbow
(D) Proximal to the medial epicondyle against the medial surface of the humerus
(E) Superficial to the pulse of the axillary artery

A 2.8-kg newborn undergoes repair of a moderate-sized omphalocele. Intravenous fluid is administered at 14 mL/hr. Forty-five minutes after beginning surgery and before reduction of the omphalocele, arterial blood pressure decreases from 80/40 to 55/30 mmHg. Sa02 is 98% at an Fi02 of 0.5. Breath sounds are equal bilaterally. Which of the following is the most likely explanation for the decrease in blood pressure?
(A) Associated congenital cardiac defect
(B) Compression of the lungs by the abdominal contents
(C) Inadequate fluid administration
(D) Pneumothorax
(E) Sepsis

A 40-year-old man who is scheduled to undergo repair of a tendon laceration of the left hand has complete anesthesia in the median, radial, and ulnar nerve distributions after supraclavicular block. Two hours of tourniquet inflation are required for completion of the procedure. The most appropriate next step is an additional block of which of the following?
(A) Axillary nerve
(B) Intercostobrachial nerve
(C) Lateral antebrachial cutaneous nerve
(D) Musculocutaneous nerve
(E) Stellate ganglion

A patient has hoarseness after undergoing surgery involving the aortic arch. The most likely cause is an injury to which of the following nerves?
(A) Glossopharyngeal
(B) Left recurrent laryngeal
(C) Right recurrent laryngeal
(D) Left superior laryngeal
(E) Right superior laryngeal

Awakening after a single dose of thiopental is caused by redistribution from the brain primarily to which of the following sites?
(A) Fat
(B) Heart
(C) Liver
(D) Lung
(E) Skeletal muscle

A patient undergoes differential spinal block for evaluation of persistent foot pain. If the pain returns coincident with a decrease in skin temperature, which of the following is the most appropriate conclusion?
(A) A somatic origin is ruled out
(B) The patient has causalgia
(C) The patient has peripheral vascular disease
(D) The pain is caused by central neuropathy
(E) Lumbar sympathetic blocks are indicated

During general anesthesia with spontaneous..ventilation, a patient has a VD/VT of 0.5. Which of the following is most likely to decrease the ratio?
(A) Acute bronchospasm
(B) Continuous positive airway pressure
(C) Decreased tidal volume
(D) Increased cardiac output
(E) Pulmonary embolism

An unconscious adult patient is being ventilated through an esophageal obturator airway (EOA) in the emergency department. In the absence of cervical spine injury, which of the following is appropriate?
(A) Use of the EOA for airway management until the patient regains consciousness
(B) Removal of the EOA before insertion of an endotracheal tube
(C) Placement of an endotracheal tube before removal of the EOA
(D) Removal of the EOA under fiberoptic endoscopic visualization
(E) Cricothyroidotomy

Which of the following detects the smallest volume of venous air embolization?
(A) Changing the precordial Doppler ultrasound signal
(B) Decreasing PetC02
(C) Decreasing Sp02
(D) Increasing central venous pressure
(E) Increasing pulmonary artery pressure

Which of the following is the most important factor affecting the incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications?
(A) Age of the patient
(B) Anesthetic technique
(C) Duration of surgery
(D) Obesity
(E) Site of the operation

Which of the following remains normal in an otherwise healthy patient with obesity?
(A) Alveolar P02
(B) Expiratory reserve volume
(C) Functional residual capacity
(D) Lung compliance
(E) Static lung volumes

An obese 70-year-old woman with a long history of tobacco abuse is awake and semirecumbent after uneventful anesthesia with isoflurane for a ventral hernia repair. During the first hour in the recovery room while breathing 50% oxygen by face mask, her SaOz decreases to 90% while other vital signs remain satisfactory. Which of the following is most likely to be effective in the management of this situation?
(A) Intravenous doxapram
(B) Racemic epinephrine by.inhalation
(C) Continuous positive airway pressure by mask
(D) Reintubation of the trachea
(E) Coughing

Three hours after undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting, an elderly man develops severe hypotension after intravenous administration of morphine 4 mg. Pulmonary artery occlusion pressure is 27 mmHg and central venous pressure is 30 mmHg. Transesophageal echocardiography shows decreased end-diastolic ventricular volumes. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
(A) Anaphylactoid reaction
(B) Cardiac tamponade
(C) Coronary graft occlusion
(D) Excessive fluid administration
(E) Pulmonary thromboembolus

A 62-year-old man, who had a myocardial infarction three years ago, complicated by congestive heart failure and renal failure, is undergoing a colectomy. A pulmonary artery catheter demonstrates a cardiac output higher than measurements recorded during a cardiac catheterization two months after the infarction. Which of the following most likely contributes to the increased cardiac output?
(A) Creation of an arteriovenous fistula 
(B) Increased hemoglobin concentration from 10 to 12 g/dL 
(C) Stimulation of carotid body receptors 
(D) Transcutaneous nitroglycerin
(E) Use of a beta-adrenergic blocker to prevent myocardial reinfarction

Which of the following is characteristic of the airway in a 2-month-oId infant when compared with an adult airway?
(A) Airway is narrowest at the cricoid cartilage
(B) Epiglottis is broader
(C) Laryngeal mucosa is more tightly adherent
(D) Larynx is positioned lower in the neck
(E) Vocal cords have a more cephalad anterior attachment

A 50-year-old woman has episodes of electric-shock-like pain of one minute in duration affecting the right side of the face. In between episodes of this pain, she is relatively pain free. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Beta-adrenergic blockers
(B) Carbamazepine
(C) Infrared heat therapy
(D) Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
(E) Stellate ganglion block

An anesthesia machine is set to deliver oxygen 2 L/min, nitrous oxide 2 L/min, and enflurane. After 30 minutes of stable anesthesia, which of the following, is the most likely cause of a decrease in the oxygen analyzer reading from 50% to 30%?
(A) A leak in the ventilator bellows
(B) Accumulation of water on the oxygen sensor membrane
(C) Calibration at 100% oxygen using less than 100% oxygen
(D) Disconnection of the wall oxygen hose
(E) Presence of the oxygen analyzer in the expiratory limb

A normotensive 66-year-old man undergoes total hip arthroplasty. Mean arterial pressure is maintained at 60 mmHg with isoflurane and labetalol; intraoperative Fl02 is 1.0. Eight units of red blood cells are administered intraoperatively because of an injury to the femoral artery. Five days later, the patient develops jaundice. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the jaundice?
(A) Delayed hemolysis from transfusion
(B) Heart failure with hepatic congestion
(C) Hepatocellular injury from labetalol
(D) Intraoperative hypotension
(E) Isoflurane-associated hepatitis

A 65-kg 70-year-old man in the PACU is breathing spontaneously at 20/min through an endotracheal tube connected to a T-piece with a fresh gas flow of 5 L/min. He has a tidal volume of 350 mL and an Fl02 of 0.5. Sp02 decreases from 98% to 84% over one hour, then improves to 92% with an Fl02 of 1.0. Which of the following is the most likely cause of the hypoxemia?
(A) Decreased functional residual capacity
(B) Increased dead space ventilation
(C) Inhibition of hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction
(D) Room air admixture during inspiration
(E) Shivering

During surgery of the forearm under axillary block, a patient has pain in the lateral aspect of the forearm and responds by flexing the elbow. The most likely cause is inadequate block of which of the following nerves?
(A) Axillary
(B) Intercostobrachial
(C) Musculocutaneous
(D) Radial
(E) Ulnar

Nine months after sustaining an injury to the left forearm, a 30-year-old woman has diffuse, burning pain on the anterior aspect of the forearm and posterior aspect of the hand and discoloration of the skin in the affected areas. The patient should be informed that
(A) if left untreated, muscle atrophy may develop in the involved limb
(B) if left untreated, the pain will remain well localized
(C) physical therapy is not indicated
(D) the symptoms are directly related to the severity of the initial injury
(E) the symptoms are most likely secondary to underlying peripheral vascular disease

A 50-year-old woman develops stridor 10 hours after undergoing thyroidectomy. The most appropriate management is administration of which of the following drugs?
(A) Albuterol
(B) Calcium chloride
(C) Ipratropium bromide
(D) Racemic epinephrine
(E) Triiodothyronine

A patient receiving propranolol and nifedipine is scheduled for elective coronary artery bypass surgery. During induction with fentanyl and oxygen, heart rate decreases from 52 to 36 bpm and blood pressure decreases from 130/85 to 80/50 mmHg. Administration of atropine 2 mg intravenously has no effect. The most appropriate treatment at this time is administration of
(A) epinephrine
(B) pancuronium
(C) naloxone
(D) phenylephrine
(E) calcium chloride

Neurolytic block is most appropriate for
(A) abdominal pain secondary to hepatic carcinoma
(B) abdominal pain secondary to chronic pancreatitis
(C) persistent chest wall pain secondary to intercostal neuralgia following a thoracotomy for trauma
(D) reflex sympathetic dystrophy of the upper extremity with an excellent but transient response to a series of stellate ganglion blocks with local anesthetic 
(E) a diabetic patient scheduled for surgical sympathectomy to relieve unilateral lower extremity pain secondary to severe peripheral vascular disease

A 75-year-old man with aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease has a preinduction heart rate of 68 bpm and blood pressure of 125/70 mmHg. After induction of anesthesia with fentanyl, midazolam, and pancuronium, heart rate is 90 bpm and blood pressure is 85/45 mmHg. ECG shows a new ST-segment elevation in lead II. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial management?
(A) Ephedrine
(B) Epinephrine
(C) Esmolol
(D) Nitroglycerin
(E) Phenylephrine

An otherwise healthy 70-year-old man receives 12 units of packed red blood cells for persistent diffuse bleeding during suprapubic prostatectomy. Hemoglobin concentration is 11 g/dL, platelet count is 55,000/mm3, plasma fibrinogen concentration is 180 mg/dL, protime is 14 sec, and partial thromboplastin time is 35 sec. The most appropriate therapy is administration of
(A) cryoprecipitate
(B) desmopressin (DDAVP)
(C) epsilon-aminocaproic acid
(D) fresh frozen plasma
(E) platelets

What is the expected mixed venous oxygen tension, in mmHg, in a normal adult after breathing 100% oxygen for 10 minutes?
(A) 573
(B) 563
(C) 150
(D) 95
(E) 45

During transurethral resection of the prostate under spinal anesthesia with a sensory level to T10, a patient has sudden onset of sharp upper abdominal pain and nausea. Arterial blood pressure increases from 120/80 to 150/90 mmHg; the patient becomes diaphoretic. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis?
(A) Bladder perforation
(B) Hemolysis
(C) Hypervolemia
(D) Hyponatremia
(E) Myocardial ischemia

A 30-year-old woman has an abrupt change from sinus to nodal rhythm with unchanged heart rate on ECG during induction of halothane anesthesia. Which of the following is the most likely result of this change?
(A) Decreased jugular venous pulsation
(B) Decreased mean arterial pressure
(C) Decreased systemic vascular resistance
(D) Increased cardiac output
(E) Increased pulse pressure

Which of the following drugs has the shortest elimination half-life?
(A) Diazepam
(B) Flumazenil
(C) Flumazepam
(D) Lorazepam
(E) Midazolam

Which of the following findings is characteristic of whole blood preserved in CPD and stored at 4°C for one week?
(A) Increased potassium concentration
(B) Normal concentrations of factors V and VIII
(C) PaCOz of 40 mmHg
(D) pH of 7.3
(E) 50% Viable platelets

Alveolar and inspired anesthetic concentrations equilibrate more rapidly with nitrous oxide than with desflurane because nitrous oxide
(A) has a higher vapor pressure
(B) has a lower blood gas solubility
(C) has a lower MAC
(D) is delivered at a higher inspired concentration
(E) produces a second gas effect

Which of the following complications of caudal anesthesia with 0.25% bupivacaine is more likely in children than in adults?
(A) Intravascular injection
(B) Neurotoxicity
(C) Profound motor block 
(D) Systemic toxicity 
(E) Total spinal block

The primary purpose of denitrogenation prior to anesthetic induction is to
(A) blunt hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction
(B) improve ventilation and perfusion matching
(C) increase contribution of second gas effect to rate of induction
(D) increase oxygen reserve in the functional residual capacity
(E) maximize arterial oxygen content

Which of the following is the most sensitive indicator of impending renal failure following trauma?
(A) Central venous pressure
(B) Creatinine clearance
(C) Fractional excretion of sodium
(D) Hourly urine output
(E) Urine osmolality

A 32-year-old woman sustains an injury to the left recurrent laryngeal nerve during thyroidectomy, Which of the following is the most likely postoperative finding?
(A) Adduction of the left vocal cord at rest
(B) Aphonia
(C) Aspiration caused by glottic incompetency
(D) Impaired coughing
(E) Paralysis of the left cricothyroid muscle

Compared with similar use in adults, routine use of succinylcholine in children is hazardous because of the increased risk for which of the following?
(A) Anaphylactoid reaction
(B) Phase II blockade
(C) Pseudocholinesterase deficiency
(D) Pulmonary aspiration
(E) Undiagnosed myopathy

The supine hypotensive syndrome of pregnancy
(A) begins at 32 weeks' gestation
(B) causes fetal distress by aortocaval compression
(C) is corrected by Trendelenburg's position
(D) is less likely following subarachnoid block than epidural block
(E) occurs in 90% of supine women at 38 to 40 weeks' gestation

In a patient undergoing liver transplantation, sodium bicarbonate and calcium chloride are administered immediately before reperfusion of the transplanted liver to counteract
(A) coagulopathy
(B) decreased cardiac output
(C) hyperkalemia
(D) hypermagnesemia
(E) hypotension

Which of the following findings on the left is most likely to be associated with an increased risk of complications with cannulation of the left internal jugular vein compared with cannulation of the right internal jugular vein?
(A) Longer recurrent laryngeal nerve
(B) Lower location of the cupola of the pleura
(C) More acute angle between the internal jugular and innominate veins
(D) More anterior location of the phrenic nerve
(E) Presence of the thoracic duct

Desflurane is delivered using a vaporizer that contains internal heaters because
(A) heat decreases the drug's viscosity
(B) heat reduces thermal loss in the patient
(C) heat increases the drug's oihgas partition coefficient
(D) heat prevents fluctuations of vapor pressure
(E) it does not vaporize adequately at room temperature

Which of the following is the most likely effect of administration of magnesium sulfate in a patient with preeclampsia?
(A) Decreased motor end-plate sensitivity to acetylcholine
(B) Decreased uteroplacental blood flow
(C) Increased platelet aggregation
(D) Increased systemic vascular resistance
(E) Inhibited acetylcholinesterase

A 65-year-old woman has respiratory distress and loss of consciousness immediately following superficial and deep cervical plexus block for right carotid endarterectomy. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Phrenic nerve paralysis
(B) Pneumothorax
(C) Recurrent laryngeal nerve block
(D) Subarachnoid injection
(E) Vertebral artery injection

During laser microsurgery of the larynx using an endotracheal tube, a fire occurs in the airway. Which of the following is the most appropriate initial management?
(A) Increase FlOz to 1.0
(B) Instill saline into the endotracheal tube
(C) Perform cricothyroidotomy
(D) Remove the endotracheal tube
(E) Ventilate with air

A 32-year-old man with acute aortic regurgitation is scheduled to undergo emergency aortic valve replacement. Heart rate is 110 bpm, blood pressure is 90/35 mmHg, and pulmonary artery occlusion pressure is 14 mmHg. Cardiac index is 2.2 L/min/m2. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Administration of esmolol
(B) Administration of a fluid bolus before induction
(C) Infusion of dobutamine
(D) Infusion of phenylephrine
(E) Induction of anesthesia

Which of the following drugs administered to a parturient eliminates fetal heart rate variability?
(A) Atropine
(B) Ephedrine
(C) Hydralazine
(D) Magnesium sulfate
(E) Terbutaline

During induced hypotension for clipping of a cerebral aneurysm in a 20-degree head-up position, the arterial pressure transducer should be zero referenced at which level?
(A) External auditory meatus
(B) Midaxillary line at the fifth intercostal space
(C) Sternal notch
(D) Thyroid cartilage
(E) Top of the cranium

Uterine blood flow is
(A) autoregulated in normal unanesthetized parturients
(B) decreased by the addition of epinephrine 1:200,000 to lidocaine administered epidurally
(C) decreased by intravenous infusion of ritodrine in unanesthetized parturients
(D) increased by administration of magnesium sulfate to patients with preeclampsia
(E) unchanged after paracervical injection of lidocaine without epinephrine

Pulse oximetry accurately reflects Sa02 in which of the following situations?
(A) Administration of indocyanine green
(B) Administration of methylene blue
(C) Carboxyhemoglobinemia
(D) 40% Fetal hemoglobin concentration
(E) Methemoglobinemia

Which of the following findings would be considered normal in the EEG of an adult?
(A) Decreased frequency during induction with halogenated anesthetics
(B) Decreased frequency in frontal areas with administration of nitrous oxide 50%
(C) Dominance of beta rhythm at 20 to 30 Hz during the awake relaxed state
(D) Electrical silence with administration of isoflurane 2.5 MAC
(E) The presence of burst suppression during natural sleep

A 22-year-old woman at 33 weeks' gestation has abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding after sustaining blunt trauma to the abdomen. Heart rate is 125 bpm, blood pressure is 98/65 mmHg, and respiratory rate is 20/min. Fetal heart rate is 100 bpm. Which of the following is the most appropriate management?
(A) Conservative observation and monitoring if fetal immaturity is seen on ultrasound
(B) Increasing maternal blood pressure with a vasopressor
(C) Infusion of terbutaline
(D) Lumbar epidural anesthesia
(E) Urgent cesarean delivery

A patient with a fasting blood glucose concentration of 100 mg/dL undergoes a four-hour operation under general anesthesia without intraoperative administration of glucose. On emergence the most likely finding will be
(A) marked hypoglycemia
(B) mild hypoglycemia
(C) normoglycemia
(D) mild hyperglycemia
(E) marked hyperglycemia

Which of the following drugs increases gastric pH while decreasing gastric volume?
(A) Glycopyrrolate
(B) Magnesium trisilicate
(C) Metoclopramide
(D) Ranitidine
(E) Sodium citrate

A 72-year-old man has ST-segment depression of 2 mm in ECG lead II immediately after suprarenal aortic clamping. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Decreased left ventricular stroke volume
(B) Decreased venous return
(C) Increased left ventricular wall tension
(D) Reflex tachycardia
(E) Release of epinephrine from hypoperfused adrenal medulla

Which of the following statements concerning neuroleptic malignant syndrome is true?
(A) It does not respond to dantrolene therapy
(B) It is inherited as an autosomal trait
(C) It is not triggered by succinylcholine
(D) It occurs after long-term use of L-dopa
(E) The halothane-caffeine contracture test is negative in susceptible patients

Which of the following anesthetic techniques is most appropriate for a woman in the second stage of labor?
(A) Epidural opioids
(B) Local infiltration of the perineum
(C) Lumbar sympathetic block
(D) Paracervical nerve block
(E) Pudendal nerve block

Intravenous administration of mannitol during a craniotomy
(A) decreases intracranial pressure relative to dosage
(B) hastens excretion of pancuronium
(C) induces metabolic alkalosis
(D) produces a sustained increase in intravascular volume
(E) requires an intact blood-brain barrier to decrease brain water

A 38-year-old woman with B-positive blood requires immediate blood transfusion during abdominal hysterectomy. No B-positive blood is available; O-negative blood is used. Three minutes after starting transfusion of packed red blood cells, the patient develops tachycardia, bronchospasm, and hypotension. Which of the following is the most likely cause?
(A) Anaphylactic reaction to donor IgA
(B) Bacterial contamination of transfused blood
(C) Hemolysis resulting from ABO incompatibility
(D) Hypocalcemia
(E) IgG-mediated reaction to Rh antigens

The use of glycine as irrigating solution during transurethral resection of the prostate could be associated with each of the following EXCEPT
(A) ammonia toxicity
(B) coma
(C) hemolysis
(D) hyponatremia
(E) transient blindness

A 26-year-old man is in the ICU one hour after sustaining a displaced cervical fracture at the level of C7-8 in a diving accident. Each of the following findings is consistent with this patient's injury EXCEPT
(A) bilateral paralysis of the vocal cord adductors
(B) gastric dilatation
(C) hypotension without tachycardia
(D) inward movement of the chest with inspiration
(E) normal tidal volume

The induction dose of thiopental should be decreased in each of the following situations EXCEPT
(A) age greater than 70 years
(B) cardiogenic shock
(C) decreased hepatic blood flow
(D) hypoalbuminemia
(E) hypothyroidism

Each of the following conditions is associated with upregulation of the acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction EXCEPT
(A) burn injuries
(B) myasthenia gravis
(C) prolonged bed rest
(D) prolonged use of neuromuscular relaxants
(E) upper motor neuron injury

Four days after subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgical clipping of a cerebral aneurysm, a patient develops cerebral artery vasospasm. Appropriate treatment includes each of the following EXCEPT
(A) administration of nimodipine
(B) controlled hypertension
(C) hemodilution to hematocrit of 33%
(D) hyperventilation to PaC02 of 25 to 30 mmHg
(E) increasing preload

Each of the following conditions can be accurately evaluated with transesophageal echocardiography EXCEPT
(A) intimal tear at the aortic arch
(B) intracardiac air
(C) left atrial thrombus
(D) patent foramen ovale
(E) right atrial myxoma

A patient being mechanically ventilated in the ICU requires wound debridement twice daily. Each of the following agents would be appropriate for induction of brief general anesthesia EXCEPT
(A) nitrous oxide
(B) etomidate
(C) ketamine
(D) methohexital
(E) midazolam

A 62-year-old patient who is undergoing femoral-popliteal arterial bypass grafting during general anesthesia develops supraventricular tachycardia. Heart rate is 165 bpm and blood pressure is 90/50 mmHg. Which of the following is the LEAST appropriate treatment of the tachycardia?
(A) Adenosine
(B) Esmolol
(C) Phenylephrine
(D) Procainamide
(E) Verapamil

Which of the following neurophysiologic monitoring modalities is LEAST affected by administration of volatile anesthetic agents?
(A) Brain stem auditory evoked potentials
(B) Electroencephalogram
(C) Motor evoked potentials
(D) Somatosensory evoked potentials
(E) Visual evoked potentials

A 35-year-old woman with a grade III subarachnoid hemorrhage is undergoing clipping of a middle cerebral artery aneurysm 48 hours after initial hemorrhage. Which of the following drugs used to induce hypotension is LEAST likely to affect intracranial pressure?
(A) Esmolol
(B) Hydralazine
(C) Isoflurane
(D) Nitroglycerin
(E) Sodium nitroprusside

Which of the following will have the LEAST effect on the shape of the autoregulatory curve for cerebral blood flow?
(A) Isoflurane
(B) Nitroprusside
(C) Hypercarbia
(D) Essential hypertension
(E) Cerebral infarction

Which of the following treatments is LEAST effective in patients with acute herpes zoster?
(A) Acyclovir
(B) Antidepressants
(C) Epidural block
(D) Opioids
(E) Sympathetic nerve block
